On February 5, 1976, the Ten O'Clock News on New York's Channel Five
announced it was doing a series on people who claimed to have
extrasensory powers. The program cut to reporter Steve Bauman

investigating an allegedly haunted house in Amityville, Long Island.

Bauman said that on November 13, 1974, a large colonial house at 112
Ocean Avenue had been the scene of a mass murder. Twenty-four-year-old
Ronald DeFeo had taken a high-powered rifle and methodically shot to
death his parents, two brothers, and two sisters. DeFeo had subsequently
been sentenced to life imprisonment.

"Two months ago," the report continued, "the house was sold for $80,000
to a couple named George and Kathleen Lutz." The Lutzes had been aware
of the killings, but not being superstitious, they had felt the house
would be perfect for themselves and their three children. They moved in
on December 23. Shortly thereafter, Bauman said, they had become aware
that the place was inhabited by some psychic force and that they feared
for their lives. "They talked of feeling the presence of some energy
inside, some unnatural evil that grew stronger each day they remained."

Four weeks after they moved in, the Lutzes abandoned the house, taking
only a few changes of clothes. At present, they were staying with
friends in an undisclosed location, But before they left, Channel Five
stated, their predicament had become known in the area. They had
consulted the police and a local priest as well as a psychic research
group. "They reportedly told of strange voices seeming to come from

within themselves, of a power which actually lifted Mrs. Lutz off her
feet toward a closet behind which was a room not noted on any
blueprints." Reporter Steve Bauman had heard of their claims. After
doing some background research on the house, he discovered that tragedy
had struck nearly every family inhabiting the place, as well as an
earlier house built on the same site.

The Channel Five announcer went on to say that William Weber, the
attorney representing Ronald DeFeo, had commissioned studies hoping to
prove that some force influenced the behavior of anyone living at 112
Ocean Avenue . Weber claimed this force "may be of natural origin," and
felt it might be the evidence he needed to win his client a new trial.
On camera, Weber said he was "aware that certain houses could be built
or constructed in a certain manner so as to create some sort of
electrical currents through some rooms, based on the physical structure
of the house. Again, the scientists said they 'are investigating that,
to rule that out.' And after they rule out all reasonable or scientific
explanation, then it's going to be referred over to another group at
Duke University , who will delve into the psychic aspects of the case."

The report concluded by saying that the Catholic Church was also
involved. Channel Five stated that two emissaries from the Vatican had
arrived in Amityville in December, and were reported to have told the

Lutzes to leave their home immediately. "Now the Church's Council of
Miracles is studying the case, and its report is that indeed 112 Ocean
Avenue is possessed of some spirits beyond current human knowledge." Two
weeks after the telecast, George and Kathy Lutz held a press conference
in attorney William Weber's office. The DeFeo lawyer had met the couple
three weeks before through mutual friends.

George Lutz stated to reporters that he would not spend another night in
the house, but he was not planning to sell 112 Ocean Avenue just then.
He was also awaiting the results of some scientific tests to be
conducted by parapsychologists and other "sensitive" professional
researchers of occult phenomena.

At that point in time, the Lutzes cut off all communication with the
media, feeling that too much was being overstated and exaggerated. It is
only now that their whole story is being told.

1 December 18, 1975, George and Kathy Lutz moved into 112 Ocean Avenue
on December 18. Twenty-eight days later, they fled in terror.

George Lee Lutz, 28, of Deer Park, Long Island, had a pretty good idea
of land and home values. The owner of a land surveying company, William

H. Parry, Inc., he proudly let everyone know that the business was a
third-gene ration operation: his grandfather's, his father's, and now
his. Between July and November, he and his wife, Kathleen, 30, had
looked at over fifty homes on the Island's South Shore before deciding
to investigate Amityville. None in the thirty to fifty thousand dollar
range had yet met their requirements-that the house must be on the water
and that it must be one to which they could move George's business.

In the course of their search, George called the Conklin Realty Office
in Massapequa Park and spoke to broker Edith Evans. She said that she
had a new house that she wanted to show them, and that she could take
them through the place between three and three-thirty. George made the
appointment and the broker-an attractive, warm woman-took them there at
three in the afternoon.

She was very pleasant and patient with the young couple. "I'm not sure
if this is what you're looking for," she told George and Kathy, "but I
wanted to show you how the 'other half' of Amityville lives." The house
at 112 Ocean Avenue is a big, rambling, three-story affair, with dark
shingles and white trim. The lot on which it stands is 50 by 237, the
fifty feet facing the front, so that as you look at the house from
across the street, the entrance door is down the right side. With the
property comes thirty feet of wooden bulkhead that stands against the

Amityville River .

On a lamppost at the end of the paved driveway, is a small sign bearing
the name given the house by a previous owner. It reads "High Hopes." An
enclosed porch with wet bar looks out at a preferred, older residential
community of other big homes. Evergreens grow around the narrow grounds,
partly blocking off the neighbors on either side, but their drawn shades
can be seen easily enough. When he looked around, George thought that
was peculiar. He noticed the neighbors' shades were all drawn on the
sides that faced his house, but not in front or in the direction of the
houses on the other side.

The house had been on the market for almost a year. It was not in the
paper, but was fully described in Edith Evans' agency listing:

EXCLUSIVE AMITYVILLE AREA: 6 bedroom Dutch Colonial, spacious
living
room, formal dining room, an closed porch, 3-1/2 baths, finished
basement, 2-car garage, heated swimming pool and large boathouse. Asking
$80,000

Eighty thousand dollars! For a house described like that in the listing,

it would have to be falling apart, or the typist could have left out a
"1" before the "8." One might think she'd want to show a suspect bargain
after dark and from the outside only, but she was glad to show them
inside. The Lutzes' examination was pleasant,-swift but thorough. Not
only did it meet with their exact requirements and desires, but contrary
to their anticipations, the house and other buildings on the property
were in fine condition.

Without hesitation, the broker then told the couple it was the DeFeo
house. Everyone in the country, it seems, had heard about that tragedy,
the twenty-three-year-old Ronald DeFeo killing his father, mother, two
brothers, and two sisters in their sleep on the night of November 13,
1974.

Newspaper and television accounts had told of the police discovering the
six bodies all shot by a high powered rifle. All-as the Lutzes learned
months later -were lying in the same position: on their stomachs with
their heads resting on their arms. Confronted with this massacre, Ronald
had finally confessed: "It just started; it went so fast, I just
couldn't stop."

During his trial, his court-appointed attorney, William Weber, pleaded
for his insanity. "For months before the incident," the young man

testified, "I heard voices. Whenever I looked around, there was no one
there, so it must have been God talking to me." Ronald DeFeo was
convicted of murder and sentenced to six consecutive life terms.

"I wonder if I should have told you which house this was before or after
you saw it," the broker mused. "I'd like to know for my future reference
with clients looking for a house in the ninety-thousand dollar range."
Clearly she didn't feel the Lutzes would be interested in such an
affluent property. But Kathy took one final look about the house, smiled
happily and said, "It's the best we've seen. It's got everything we ever
wanted." Obviously she had never hoped to live in such a fine house. But
George vowed to himself that if there was a way, this was the place he
wanted his wife to have. The tragic history of 112 Ocean Avenue didn't
matter to George, Kathy, or their three children. This was still the
home they had always wanted.

During the remainder of November and the early weeks of December, the
Lutzes spent their evenings laying out plans for minor modifications to
be made in the new house. George's surveying experience enabled him to
rough out suitable layouts for the changes.

He and Kathy decided one of the bedrooms on the third floor would be for
their two boys, Christopher aged seven, and Daniel, nine. The other

upstairs bedroom they gave to their children as a playroom. Melissa,
"Missy," the five-year-old girl, would sleep on the second floor, across
the hall from the master bedroom. There would also be a sewing room and
a big dressing room for George and Kathy on the same floor. Chris,
Danny, and Missy were well pleased with their room assignments.

Downstairs, on the main floor, the Lutzes had a slight problem. They
didn't own any dining room furniture. They finally decided that before
the closing, George would tell the broker they'd like to purchase the
dining room set left in storage by the DeFeos, along with a girl's
bedroom set for Missy, a TV chair and Ronald DeFeo's bedroom furniture.
These things and other furnishings left in the house, like the DeFeo's
bed, were not included in the purchase price. George paid out an
additional $400 for these items. He also got for free seven
air-conditioners, two washers, two dryers, and a new refrigerator and a
freezer.

There was a lot to be accomplished before moving day. In addition to the
physical move of all their belongings, there were complicated legal
questions, relative to the transfer of the title, that required sifting
and sorting out. The title to the house and property was recorded in the
names of Ronald DeFeo's parents. It seemed Ronald, as the sole survivor,
was entitled to inherit his parents' estate, regardless of the fact that

he had been convicted of murdering them. None of the assets in the
estate could be disposed of before being legally settled in Probate
Court. It was a difficult legal maze that the executors had to travel,
and more time was still needed to provide the proper legal
administration of any transactions related to the house or property.

The LuLzes were advised that provisions could be devised to protect the
legal interests of all concerned if the sale of the house was
consummated; but to arrive at the proper procedure to accomplish this
could take weeks or longer. Eventually it was resolved that, for the
closing, $40,000 was to be put in escrow for the mortgage until a legal
deed could be completed and executed.

The closing date was set for the morning George and Kathy planned to
move from Deer Park. They had arranged to close on the sale of their old
house the day before. Confident that everything could be worked out, and
probably influenced by their anxiety to get settled in their new home,
the couple decided to try and get everything done on the same day.
Packing was to be mainly Kathy's job. To keep the children out of her
hair and away from George, she assigned them minor projects. They would
gather their own toys and arrange their clothing for packing. When the
chores were completed, they were to start cleaning their rooms to make
their old house presentable for the scrutiny of new owners. George

planned to close his office in Syosset and move it into the new house to
save on the rent money. He had included this item in his original
estimate of how he and Kathy could afford an $80,000 house. Now he
figured that the basement, a well-finished layout, might be the best
place. Moving his equipment and furnishings would be time consuming
enough, and if the basement was to be the location of the new office,
some carpentry would be needed.

The 45 by 22 foot boathouse, out behind the house and garage, was not
there just to be ostentatious and an unused decoration for the Lutzes.
George owned a twenty-five-foot cabin cruiser and a fifteen-foot
speedboat. The facilities at his new house would again save him a lot of
money he normally had been paying to a marina. The task of getting his
vessels to Amityville with a trailer became an obsession with him,
despite the priorities that he and Kathy were constantly discovering.

There was work to be done at 112 Ocean Avenue, both inside and outside.
Although he wasn't sure where the time was going to come from, George
planned to attend to some of the landscaping and the garden to prevent
frost damage, maybe put framed burlap around the shrubs, put in bulbs
and after that, spread some lime on the lawn.

Handy with his tools and equipment, George made good progress on many

interior projects. Now and then, pressed for time, he got his hopeful
projects confused with his musts. He soon dropped everything to clean
the chimney, then the fireplace. After all, Christmas was coming up. It
was quite cold on the actual moving day. The family had packed the night
before and slept on the floor. George was up early and single handedly
piled the first full load into the biggest U-haul trailer he could rent,
finishing in barely enough time to clean up and get to the closing with
Kathy.

At the legal ritual, the attorneys used up more than their usually
allotted heretos, whereases and parties of, and dealt each other long
sheets of typewritten paper. The Lutzes' lawyer explained that because
of the impediments on the house, they did not have a clear title to the
property, though they'd have the best that could be fashioned for their
mortgage. But remarkably, the closing was all over a few minutes past
noon. As they rushed from the office, their lawyers assured them they
would have no problem and eventually would get proper ownership papers.
At one o'clock, George rolled into the driveway of 112 Ocean Avenue,
with the trailer crowded with their belongings, and the DeFeos'
refrigerator, washer, dryer and freezer that had been in storage. Kathy
followed with the children in the family van with their motorcycle in
the back. Five of George's friends, young men in their twenties and
husky enough to help move bulky items, were waiting. Furniture, boxes,

crates, barrels, bags, toys, bikes, motorcycles, and clothing were taken
from the truck onto the patio at the rear of the house and into the
garage.

Then George walked to the front door, fumbling in his pockets as he
went, searching for the key to the door. Irritated, he returned to the
truck and thoroughly searched it before admitting to his assistants that
he didn't have it. The broker was the only one with the key, and she had
taken it with her as she left the closing. George called her, and she
went back to her office to fetch it.

When the side door was finally open, the three children leaped from the
van, made right for their respective toys and began a parade of
unprofessional movers in and out of the house. Kathy designated the
destination of each parcel.

It took time to maneuver furniture up the fairly narrow stairwell
leading to the second and third floors. And by the time Father Mancuso
arrived to bless the house, it was well after one-thirty p.m.

2 December 18 -Father Frank Mancuso is not only a cleric. In addition to
properly attending to his priestly duties, he handles clients in family

counseling for his diocese.

That morning, Father Mancuso had woken up feeling uneasy. Something was
bothering him. He couldn't put his finger on it, because he really
didn't have any particular worries. In his own words, looking back, he
can only explain it as a "bad feeling."

All that morning, the priest moved around his apartment in the Long
Island rectory in a daze. Today is Thursday, he thought to himself. I've
got a lunch date in Lindenhurst, then I must go and bless the Lutzes'
new home and be at my mother's for dinner.

Father Mancuso had met George Lee Lutz two years earlier. Even though
George was a Methodist, he had helped Kathy and George in the days
before they were married. The three children were Kathy's from a
previous marriage, and as a priest to Catholic children, Father Mancuso
felt a personal need to look after their interests.

The young couple had often asked the friendly cleric with the
neatly-trimmed beard to come for lunch or dinner at their home in Deer
Park. Somehow that anticipated meeting had never come off. Now, George
had a very special reason to invite him anew: Would he come to
Amityville to bless their new house? Father Mancuso said he'd be there

on December 18. On the same day he agreed to come to George's house, he
also made a date to lunch with four old friends in Lindenhurst, Long
Island. His very first parish had been there. Now he was very well
regarded in the diocese, with his own quarters at the rectory in Long
Island. Understandably he was always busy and held to a hectic schedule,
so he could not be blamed for trying to kill two birds with one stone,
since Lindenhurst and Amityville were but a few miles apart.

The cleric could not shake the "bad feeling" that persisted even through
the pleasant luncheon with his four old acquaintances. However, he kept
stalling his leaving for Amityville, pushing ahead the time to go. His
friends asked him where he was off to.

"To Amityville."

"Where in Amityville?"

"It's a young couple in their thirties, with three children. They live
on ..." Father Mancuso referred to a slip of paper. "112 Ocean Avenue."

"That's the DeFeo house," one of his friends said.

"No. Their name is Lutz. George and Kathleen Lutz."

"Don't you remember the DeFeos, Frank?" asked one of the men at the
table. "Last year? The son killed his whole family. His father, mother,
and four brothers and sisters. Terrible, terrible thing. It was a big
story in all the papers."

The priest tried to think back. He seldom read the news when lie picked
up a paper, only looking for items of special interest. "No, I really
don't seem to recall it."

Of the four men at the table, three were priests and they somehow didn't
like the idea. The consensus was that he shouldn't go.

"I must. I promised them I'd come."

As Father Mancuso drove the few miles to Amityville, he felt
apprehensive. It wasn't the fact that he would be visiting the DeFeo
house, he was sure, but something else....

It was past one-thirty when he arrived. The Lutzes' driveway was so
cluttered that he had to park his old tan Ford on the street. It was an
enormous house, he noted. Good for Kathy and the children that her
husband had been able to provide such a fine home!

The priest removed his clerical articles from the car, put on his stole,
took the holy water, and entered the house to begin his ritual of
blessing. When he flicked the first holy water and uttered the words
that accompany the gesture, Father Mancuso heard a masculine voice say
with terrible clarity: "Get out!"

He looked up in shock and whirled about. His eyes widened in
astonishment. The command had come from directly behind him, but he was
alone in the room. Who or whatever had spoken, was nowhere to be seen!
When he finished his ritual of blessing, the priest didn't mention the
incident to the Lutzes. They thanked him for his kindness, asked him to
stay for supper, such as it would be the first night. He politely
refused, explaining that he planned to have dinner with his mother at
her house in Nassau. She would be waiting for him; it was getting late,
and he still had a bit of a drive.

Kathy really wanted to thank Father Mancuso for his contribution to the
occasion. George asked if he would accept a gift of money or a bottle of
Canadian Club, but he quickly refused, stating he couldn't accept
gratuities from a friend.

Once in his car, Father Mancuso rolled down his window. Repeated thanks

and well-wishes were exchanged, but as he spoke to the couple, his
expression turned serious. "By the way, George. I had lunch with some
friends over in Lindenhurst before coming here. They told me that this
was the DeFeo home. Did you know that?"

"Oh, sure. I think that's why it's such a bargain. It was on the market
for a long time. But that doesn't bother us at all. It's got the best of
everything."

"Wasn't that a tragedy, Father?" said Kathy. "That poor family. Imagine,
all six murdered in their sleep."

The priest nodded. Then with repeated goodbyes from the three children,
the family watched as he drove off to Queens.

It was nearly four when George had completed the first unloading at 112
Ocean Avenue. He drove the U-Haul back to Deer Park and into his old
driveway. As he opened the door to his garage, Harry, his dog, leaped
out and would have made a getaway if he hadn't been snared by his head.
The fast and sturdy half-malamute, half-Labrador retriever had been left
behind to guard the rest of the family's belongings. Now George took him
into the truck with him.

As Father Mancuso rode toward his mother's, he tried to rationalize what
had happened to him in the Lutzes' house. Who or what would say such a
thing to him. After all his experiences in counseling, now and again in
his sessions he encountered clients who reported hearing voices-a
symptom of psychosis. But Father Mancuso was convinced of his own
stability.

His mother greeted him at her door, then frowned. "What's the matter
with you, Frank? Don't you feel well?"

The priest shook his head. "No, not too terribly."

"Go in the bathroom and look at your face."

Looking at his reflection in the mirror, he saw two large, black circles
under his eyes that were so dark he thought they must be smears of dirt.
He tried to wash them off with soap and water, but it didn't help.

Back in Amityville, George took Harry to the dog compound next to the
garage and chained him with a 20-foot steel lead. Now that it was after
six, George was almost exhausted and decided to leave the rest of his
possessions in the truck even though it was costing him fifty dollars a
day to rent the vehicle. He worked inside, placing most of the

livingroom furniture in their approximate positions.

Father Mancuso left his mother's home after eight, heading back to the
Rectory. On the Van Wyck Expressway in Queens, he found his car was
literally being forced onto the right shoulder. He looked around
quickly. There was no other vehicle within fifty feet of him!

Shortly after driving back onto the highway and continuing on his way,
the hood suddenly flew open, smashing back against the windshield. One
of the welded hinges tore loose. The right door flew open! Frantically
Father Mancuso tried to brake the car. Then it stalled by itself.

Shaken, he finally got to a telephone and reached another priest who
lived near the Expressway. Fortunately the other cleric was able to
drive Father Mancuso to a garage where he hired a tow truck to bring in
the disabled car. Back on the Expressway, the mechanic could not get the
Ford to start. Father Mancuso decided to leave the vehicle at the garage
and have his friend drive him on to the Sacred Heart Rectory.

Coming to almost the very end of his strength, George decided to
complete the day's labor with something more pleasurable for himself.
He'd rig his stereo up with the hi-fi equipment that the DeFeos had
built into the livingroom. Then he and Kathy would have music to add to

the joy of their first night in their new home.

He'd barely begun the job, when Harry began an awful howling outside.
Danny came rushing into the house, yelling that Harry was in trouble.
George ran out to the back fence to find the poor animal strangling. He
had tried to jump over the fence and was now choking on his chain, which
had looped across the top bar. George freed Harry, shortened the lead so
the dog couldn't try that again, and returned to installing the stereo.

An hour after he was back in his quarters, Father Mancuso's telephone
rang. It was the priest who had helped him out earlier. "Do you know
what happened to me after I dropped you off?"

Father Mancuso was almost afraid to ask ...

"The windshield wipers, they began to fly back and forth like crazy! I
couldn't stop them! I never turned them on, Frank! What the hell is
going on?"

By eleven o'clock that night, the Lutzes were ready to settle down for
their first night in their new home.

It had gotten colder outside, down to almost 6 degrees above zero.

George burned some now-empty cardboard cartons in the fireplace, making
a merry blaze. It was the eighteenth of December, 1975, the first of
their twenty-eight days.

3 December 19 to 21 - George sat up in bed, wide awake. He had heard a
knock on his front door.

He looked around in the darkness. For a moment, he didn't know where he
was, but then it came to him. He was in the master bedroom of his new
home. Kathy was there, beside him, hunched down under the warm covers.

The knock came again. "Jesus, who's that?" he muttered.

George reached for his wristwatch on the night table. It was 3:15 in the
morning! Again a loud rapping. Only this time, it didn't sound as if it
was coming from downstairs, more from somewhere off to his left.

George got out of bed, padded across the cold, uncarpeted floor of the
hallway and into the sewing room that faced the Amityville River in the
back. He looked out the window into the darkness. He heard another
knock. George strained his eyes to see. "Where the hell's Harry?"

From somewhere over his head came a sharp crack. Instinctively he
ducked, then looked up at the ceiling. He heard a low squeak. The boys,
Danny and Chris, were on the floor above him. One of them must have
pushed a toy off his bed in his sleep.

Barefooted and wearing only his pajama pants, George was shivering now.
He looked back out the window. There! Something was moving, down by the
boathouse. He quickly lifted the window, and the freezing air hit him
full blast. "Hey! Who's out there?" Then Harry barked and moved. George,
his eyes adjusting to the darkness, saw the dog spring to his feet. The
shadow was close to Harry.

"Harry! Go get him!" Another rap sounded from the direction of the
boathouse, and Harry spun around at the noise. He began running back and
forth in his compound, barking furiously now, the lead holding him back.
George slammed the window shut and ran back to his bedroom. Kathy had
awoken. "What's the matter?" She turned on the lamp on her night table
as George fumbled into his pants. "George?" Kathy saw his bearded face
look up.

"It's all right, honey. I just want to take a look around out back.
Harry's onto something near the boathouse. Probably a cat. I'd better
quiet him down before he wakes the whole neighborhood." He slid into his

loafers and was heading for his old navy blue Marine parka lying on a
chair. "I'll be right up. Go back to sleep."

Kathy turned off the light. "Okay. Put your jacket on." The next
morning, she wouldn't remember having awakened at all.

When George came out the kitchen door, Harry was still barking at the
moving shadow. There was a length of two-by-four lumber lying against
the swimming pool fence. George grabbed it and ran toward the boathouse.
Then he saw the shadow move. His grip tightened on the heavy stick.
Another loud rap.

"Damn!" George saw it was the door to the boathouse, open and swinging
in the wind. "I thought I'd locked that before!"

Harry barked again.

"Oh, shut up, Harry! Knock it off!"

A half hour later, George was back in bed, still wide awake. As an
ex-Marine, not too many years out of the service, he was fairly
accustomed to emergency wake-up calls. It was taking him time to turn
off his inner alarm system.

Waiting for sleep to return, he considered what he had gotten himself
into-a second marriage with three children, a new house with a big
mortgage. The taxes in Amityville were three times higher than in Deer
Park. Did he really need that new speedboat? How the hell was he going
to pay for all of this? The construction business was lousy on Long
Island because of the tight mortgage money, and it didn't look like it
would get better until the banks loosened up. If they aren't building
houses and buying property, who the hell needs a land surveyor?

Kathy shifted in her sleep, so that her arm fell across George's neck.
Her face burrowed deep into his chest. He sniffed her hair. She
certainly smelled clean, he thought; he liked that. And she kept her
children the same way, spotless. Her kids? George's now. Whatever the
trouble, she and the children were worth it.

George looked up at the ceiling. Danny was a good boy, into everything.
He could handle almost anything you gave him to do. They were getting
closer, now. Danny was now beginning to call his stepfather "Dad;" no
more "George." In a way he was glad he never got to meet Kathy's
ex-husband; this way he felt Danny was all his. Kathy said that Chris
looked just like his father, had the same ways about him, the same dark,
curly hair and eyes. George would reprimand the boy for something, and

Chris's face would fall and he'd look up at him with those soulful eyes.
The kid sure knew how to use them.

He liked the way both boys looked after little Missy. She was a little
terror, but smart for a five year old. He'd never had any trouble with
her from the first day he met Kathy. She was Daddy's girl, all right.
Listens to Kathy and me. In fact, they all do. They're three nice kids
I've got. It was after six before George finally fell into a deep sleep.
Kathy woke up a few minutes later.

She looked around this strange room, trying to put her thoughts
together. She was in the bedroom of her beautiful new home. Her husband
was next to her and her three children were in their own bedrooms.
Wasn't that marvelous! God had been good to them.

Kathy tried to slip easily from under George's arm. The poor man worked
so hard yesterday, she thought, and today he's got more ahead of him.
Let him sleep. She couldn't; she had too much to do in the kitchen and
she had better get started before the kids got up.

Downstairs, she looked around at her new kitchen. It was still dark
outside. She turned on the light. Boxes of her dishes, glasses, and pots
were piled up all over the floor and sink. Chairs were still sitting on

top of the dinette table. But, she smiled to herself, the kitchen was
going to be a happy room for her family. It might be just the place for
her Transcendental Meditation, which George had been practicing for two
years; Kathy, one. He had been into TM ever since the breakup of his
first marriage, when he had been attending sessions of group therapy;
out of that grew his interest in meditation. He had introduced Kathy to
the subject, but now, with all the work of moving in, he had completely
ignored his established pattern of going off by himself into a room and
meditating for a few minutes each day.

Kathy washed out her electric percolator, filled it, plugged it in, and
lit her first cigarette of the day. Drinking coffee, Kathy sat at the
table with a pad and pencil, making notes for herself on the jobs to be
done around the house. Today was the nineteenth, a Friday. The kids
would not go to their new school until after the Christmas holidays.
Christmas! There was so much still to do....

Kathy sensed someone was staring at her. Startled, she looked up and
over her shoulder. Her little daughter was standing in the doorway.
"Missy! You scared me half to death. What's the matter. What are you
doing up so early?"

The little girl's eyes were half-closed. Her blonde hair hung across her

face. She looked around, as if not understanding where she was. "I wanna
go home, Mama."

"You are home, Missy. This is our new home. C'mere."

Missy shambled over to Kathy and climbed up on her mother's lap. The two
ladies of the house sat there in their pleasant kitchen, Kathy rocking
her daughter back to sleep.

George came down after nine. By that time, the boys had already finished
their breakfast and were outside, playing with Harry, investigating
everything. Missy was asleep again in her room.

Kathy looked at her husband whose big frame filled the doorway. She saw
he hadn't shaved below his jawbone and that his dark blonde hair and
beard were still uncombed. That meant he hadn't showered. "What's the
matter? Aren't you going to work?"

George sat down wearily at the table. "Nope. I still have to unload the
truck and get it back out to Deer Park. We blew an extra fifty bucks by
keeping it overnight." He looked around, yawning, and shivered. "It's
cold in here. Don't you have the heat on?"

The boys ran past the kitchen door, yelling at Harry. George looked up.
"What's the matter with those two? Can't you keep them quiet, Kathy?"

She turned from the sink. "Well, don't bark at me! You're their father,
you know! You do it!"

George slapped his open palm down on the table. The sharp sound made
Kathy jump. "Right!" he shouted.

George opened the kitchen door and leaned out. Danny, Chris, and Harry,
whooping it up, ran by again. "Okay! The three of you! Knock it off!"
Without waiting for their reaction, he slammed the door and stormed out
of the kitchen.

Kathy was speechless. This was the first time he had really lost his
temper with the children. And for so little! He hadn't been in a bad
mood the day before.

George unloaded the U-Haul by himself, then drove it back to Deer Park,
with his motorcycle in the rear so that lie could get back to
Amityville. He never did shave or shower and did nothing the rest of the
day but gripe about the lack of heat in the house and the noise the
children were making in their playroom up on the third floor.

He had been a bear all day, and by eleven o'clock that night, when it
was time to go to bed, Kathy was ready to crown him. She was exhausted
from putting things away and trying to keep the kids away from George.
She'd start cleaning the bathrooms in the morning, she figured, but that
was it for tonight. She was going to bed.

George stayed down in the livingroom, feeding log after log into the
roaring fireplace. Even though the thermostat read 75 degrees, he
couldn't seem to get warm. He must have checked the oil burner in the
basement a dozen times during the day and evening.

At twelve, George finally dragged himself up to the bedroom and fell
asleep immediately. At 3:15 in the morning, he was wide awake again,
sitting up in bed.

There was something on his mind. The boathouse. Did he lock the door? He
couldn't remember. He had to go out and check. It was closed and locked
up. Over the next two days, the Lutz family began to go through a
collective personality change. As George said, "It was not a big thing,
just little bits and pieces, here and there."

He didn't shave or shower, something he did religiously. Normally George

devoted as much time to his business as he could; two years before, he
had had a second office in Shirley to handle contractors farther out on
the South Shore. But now he simply called Syosset and gave gruff orders
to his men, demanding they finish some surveying jobs over the weekend
because he needed the money. As for arranging to move his office to his
new basement setup, he never gave it another thought.

Instead, George constantly complained the house was like a refrigerator
and he had to warm it up. Stuffing more and more logs in the fireplace
occupied almost his every moment, except for the times he would go out
to the boathouse, stare into space, then go back to the house. Even now,
he can't say what he was looking for when he went there; he just knew
that somehow he was drawn to the place.

It was practically a compulsion. The third night in the house, he again
awoke at 3:15 A.M., worried about what might be going on out there. The
children bothered him too. Ever since the move, they seemed to have
become brats, misbehaved monsters who wouldn't listen, unruly children
who must be severely punished.

When it came to the children, Kathy fell into the same mood. She was
tense from her strained relationship with George and from the efforts of
trying to put her house in shape before Christmas. On their fourth night

in the house, she exploded and together with her husband, beat Danny,
Chris, and Missy with a strap and a large, heavy wooden spoon.

The children had accidentally cracked a pane of glass in the playroom's
half-moon window.

4 December 22 - Early Monday morning, it was bitter cold in Amityville.
The town is right on the Atlantic side of Long Island and the sea wind
blew in like a nor'easter. The thermometer hovered at 8 degrees and
media weathermen were forecasting a white Christmas.

Inside 112 Ocean Avenue, Danny, Chris, and Missy Lutz were up in the
playroom, slightly subdued from the whipping the night before. George
had still not gone to his office and was sitting in the livingroom,
adding more logs to a blazing fire. Kathy was writing at her dinette
table in the kitchen nook.

As she worked over a list of things to buy for Christmas, her
concentration wandered. She was upset about having hit the children,
particularly about the way George and she had gone about it. There were
many gifts the Lutz family still hadn't bought, and Kathy knew she had
to go out and get them, but since they had moved in, she never had any

desire to leave the house. She had just written down her Aunt Theresa's
name when Kathy froze, pencil in midair.

Something had come up from behind and embraced her. Then it took her
hand and gave it a pat. The touch was reassuring, and had an inner
strength to it. Kathy was startled, but not frightened; it was like the
touch of a mother giving comfort to her daughter. Kathy had the
impression of a woman's soft hand resting on her own!

"Mommy! Come up here, quick!" It was Chris, calling from the third floor
hallway.

Kathy looked up. The spell was broken, the touch was gone. She ran up
the stairs to her children. They were in their bathroom, looking into
the toilet. Kathy saw the inside of the bowl was absolutely black, as
though someone had painted it from the bottom to the edge just below the
rim. She pushed the handle, flushing clear water against the sides. The
black remained.

Kathy grabbed toilet paper and tried vainly to rub off the
discoloration. "I don't believe it! I just scrubbed this yesterday with
Clorox!" She turned accusingly to the children. "Did you throw any paint
in here?"

"Oh, no Mama!" all three chorused.

Kathy was fit to be tied; the incident in the breakfast nook was
forgotten. She looked into the sink and bathtub, but they were still
gleaming from her scouring. She turned on the faucets. Nothing but clear
running water. Once more, she flushed the toilet, not really expecting
the horrible black color to disappear.

She bent down and looked around the base to see if anything was leaking
through to the inside of the bowl. Finally she turned to Danny. "Get the
Clorox from my bathroom. It's in the little closet under the sink."

Missy started to go. "Missy! You stay here! Let Danny get it." The boy
left the bathroom. "And bring the scrub brush, too!" Kathy called after
him. Chris searched his mother's face, his eyes watering. "I didn't do
it. Please don't hit me again."

Kathy looked at him, thinking of the terrible night before. "No, baby,
it wasn't your fault. Something's happened to the water, I think. Maybe
some oil backed up the line. Didn't you notice it before?"

"I had to go. I saw it first!" crowed Missy.

"Uh-huh. Well, let's see what the Clorox does before I call your father
and he..."

"Mama! Mama!" The cry came from down the hall.

Kathy leaned out the bathroom doorway. "What is it, Danny? I said it's
under the sink!"

"No, Mama! I found it! But the black's in your toilet, too! And it
stinks in here!"

Kathy's bathroom door was at the far end of her bedroom. Danny was
standing outside the bedroom, holding his nose, when Kathy and the other
two children came running down.

As soon as Kathy stepped into the bedroom, the odor bit her-a sweetish
perfume smell. She stopped, sniffed, and frowned. "What the hell is
that? That isn't my cologne."

But when she entered her bathroom, she was struck by a completely
different odor, an overpowering stench. Kathy gagged and started to
cough, but before she ran, caught a glimpse of her toilet bowl. It was

totally black inside!

The children scrambled out of her way as she headed down the stairs.

"George!"

"What do you want? I'm busy!"

Kathy burst into the livingroom and ran over to where George was
crouched by the fireplace. "You'd better come and look! There's
something in our bathroom that smells like a dead rat! And the toilet's
all black!" She grabbed his hand and tugged him out of the room.

The other bathroom toilet bowl on the second floor was also black
inside, as George discovered, but it had no smell. He sniffed the
perfume in his room. "What the hell's that?"

He began to open the windows on the second floor. "First, let's get this
smell out of here!" He lifted the windows in his and Kathy's bedroom,
then ran across the hall to the other bedrooms. Then he heard Kathy's
voice.

"George! Look at this!"

The fourth bedroom on the second floor-now Kathy's sewing room-has two
windows. One, which looks out at the boathouse and the Amityville River,
was the window George had opened that first night when he had awakened
at 3:15. The other faces the neighboring house to the right of 112 Ocean
Avenue. On this window, clinging to the inside of the panes, were
literally hundreds of buzzing flies!

"Jesus, will you look at that! House flies, now?"

"Maybe they're attracted by the smell?" Kathy volunteered.

"Yeah, but not at this time of year. Flies don't live that long, and not
in this weather. And why are they only on this window?" George looked
around the room, trying to see where the insects had come from. There
was a closet in one corner. He opened the door and peered in, looking
for cracks; for anything that would make sense.

"If this closet wall was up against the bathroom, they might have lived
in the warmth. But this wall's against the outside." George put his hand
against the plaster. "It's cold in here. I don't see any way they could
have survived."

After shooing his family out into the hall, George shut the door to the
sewing room. He opened the other window overlooking the boathouse, then
took some newspapers and chased out as many flies as he could. He killed
those that remained, then he closed the window. By then, it was freezing
on the second floor, but at least the sweet perfume odor was gone. The
bathroom stench had also diminished.

This didn't help George in his efforts to warm his house. Though no one
else was complaining, he checked the oil heating system in the basement.
It was working fine. By four o'clock in the afternoon, the thermostat
just off the livingroom read 80 degrees, but George couldn't feel the
heat.

Kathy had scrubbed the toilet bowls again with Clorox, Fantastik, and
Lysol. The cleaners helped somewhat, but a good deal of the black
remained, stained deep into the porcelain. Worst of all was the toilet
in the second bathroom next to the sewing room.

The outdoor temperature had risen to 20 degrees and the children were
out of the house, playing with Harry. Kathy warned them to keep away
from the boathouse and bulkhead area, saying it was too dangerous for
them to play there without someone to watch them.

George had brought in some more logs from the cord stacked in the garage
and was sitting in the kitchen with Kathy. They began to argue violently
about who should go out to buy the Christmas gifts. "Why can't you at
least pick up the perfume for your mother?" asked George.

"I've got to get this place in order," Kathy erupted. "I don't see you
doing anything but harping!"

After a few minutes, the squabble petered out. Kathy was about to
mention the eerie thing that had happened to her in the nook that
morning when the front doorbell rang.

A man, who looked to be anywhere from thirty-five to forty-five because
of his receding hairline, was standiDg there with a hesitant smile on
his face and a six-pack 44 of beer in his hands. His features were
coarse and his nose was red from the cold. "Everybody wants to come over
to welcome you to the neighborhood. You don't mind, do you?"

The fellow wore a three-quarter length wool car coat, corduroy pants,
and construction boots. It struck George that he didn't look like a
neighbor who would own one of the large homes in the area.

Before they even moved to Amityville, George and Kathy had considered

the idea of having an open house, but once in the new house, they had
never brought up the subject again. George nodded to the one-man
welcoming committee. "No, we don't mind. If they don't mind sitting on
cardboard boxes, bring them all."

George took him into the kitchen and introduced Kathy. The man stood
there, and repeated his speech to her. Kathy nodded. He continued by
telling the Lutzes that he kept his boat at another neighbor's
boathouse, several doors down on Ocean Avenue.

The man held on to the six-pack and finally said, "I brought it, I'll
take it with me," and left.

George and Kathy never found out his name. They never saw him again.
That night when they went to bed, George made his usual check of all the
doors and windows, latching and locking, inside and out. So, when he
woke once more at 3:15 in the morning and gave in to the urge to look
downstairs, he was stunned to find the two hundred and fifty pound
wooden front door wrenched wide open, hanging from one hinge!

5 December 23 - Kathy awoke to the noise of George wrestling with the
wrecked front door. When she felt the chill in the house, she threw on a

robe and ran downstairs to see her husband trying to force the heavy
wooden slab back into its frame.

"What happened?"

"I don't know," George answered, finally forcing the door closed. "This
thing was wide open, hanging on one hinge. Here, look at this!" He
pointed to the brass lock plate. The doorknob was twisted completely
off-center. The metal facing was bent back as though someone had tried
to pry it open with a tool, but from the inside! "Someone was trying to
get out of the house, not in!"

"I don't understand what's going on around here," George muttered, more
to himself than Kathy. "I know I locked this before I went upstairs. To
open the door from in here, all you had to do was turn the lock."

"Is it the same way outside?" Kathy asked.

"No. There's nothing wrong with the knob or the outside plate.
Somebody'd need an awful lot of strength to pull away a door this heavy
and tear it off one of the hinges ..."

"Maybe it was the wind, George," Kathy offered hopefully. "It seems to

get pretty strong out there, you know."

"There's no wind in here, much less a tornado. Somebody or something had
to do this!"

The Lutzes looked at one another. Kathy was the first to react. "The
kids!" She turned and ran up the stairs to the second floor and into
Missy's bedroom.

A small light in the shape of Yogi Bear was plugged into the wall near
the bottom of the little girl's bed. In its feeble glow, Kathy glimpsed
the form of Missy lying on her stomach. "Missy?" Kathy whispered,
leaning over the bed. Missy whimpered, then turned over onto her back.
Kathy let out a sigh of relief and tucked the covers up under her
daughter's chin. The cold air that had come in while the front door was
open had made even this room very chilly. She kissed Missy on the
forehead and silently slipped out of the room, heading for the third
floor.

Danny and Chris were sleeping soundly. Both were on their stomachs.
"Later, when I thought about it," Kathy says, "that was the first time I
could ever remember the children sleeping in that position-particularly
all three on their stomachs at the same time. I even remember I was

almost going to say something to George, that it was kind of strange."

In the morning, the cold spell that gripped Amityville was still
unbroken. It was cloudy, and the radio kept promising snow for
Christmas. In the hallway of the Lutz home, the thermostat still read a
steady 80 degrees, but George was back in the livingroom, stoking the
fire to a roaring blaze. He told Kathy he just couldn't shake the chill
from his bones, and he didn't understand why she and the children didn't
feel that way too.

The job of replacing the doorknob and lock assembly on the front door
was too complex for even a handy individual like George. The local
locksmith arrived about twelve, as he'd promised. He made a long, slow
survey of the damage inside the house and then gave George a peculiar
look, but offered no explanation as to how something like this could
have possibly happened. He finished the job quickly and quietly. Upon
leaving, his one comment was that the DeFeos had called him a couple of
years before: "They were having trouble with the lock on the boathouse
door."

He had been called to change the lock assembly because once the door was
closed from the inside, it would somehow jam, and whoever was in the
boathouse couldn't get out. George wanted to say more about the

boathouse, but when Kathy looked at him, he held back. They didn't want
the news spreading around Amityville that again there was something
funny going on at 112 Ocean Avenue.

By two in the afternoon, the weather had begun to warm. A slight drizzle
was enough to keep the children in the house. George still hadn't gone
to work and was in constant transit between the livingroom and the
basement, adding logs and checking on the oil burner. Danny and Chris
were up in their third floor playroom, noisily banging their toys
around. Kathy was back at her cleaning chores, putting shelf paper in
the closets. She had worked her way almost to her own bedroom on the
second floor when she looked in Missy's room. The little girl was
sitting in her diminutive rocking chair, humming to herself as she
stared out the window that looked toward the boathouse.

Kathy was about to speak to her daughter when the phone rang. She picked
up the extension in her own bedroom. It was her mother, saying that she
would be over the next day--Christmas Eve-and that Kathy's brother Jimmy
would bring them a Christmas tree as a housewarming gift.

Kathy said how relieved she was that at least the tree would be taken
care of, since she and George had been unable to rouse themselves to do
any shopping at all.

Then, out of the comer of her eye, Kathy saw Missy leave her room and
enter the sewing room. Kathy was only half listening to what her mother
was saying; what could Missy possibly want in there, where all the flies
had been the day before? She could hear her five-year-old daughter
humming, moving about some still unopened cardboard boxes.

Kathy was about to cut her mother short when she saw Missy come back out
of the sewing room. When the child stepped into the hallway and returned
to her own bedroom, she stopped her humming. Puzzled by her daughter's
behavior, Kathy wound up her conversation with her mother, again
thanking her for the tree. She hung up, walked silently toward Missy's
room and stood in the doorway.

Missy was back in her rocking chair, staring out the same window and
humming again, a tune that didn't sound quite familiar. Kathy was about
to speak when Missy stopped humming, and without turning her head, said,
"Mama? Do angels talk?"

Kathy stared at her daughter. The little girl had known she was there!
But before Kathy could step into the room, she was startled by a loud
crash from overhead. The boys were upstairs! Fearful, she raced up the
steps to the playroom. Danny and Chris were rolling on the floor, locked

in each other's arms, punching and kicking at each other.

"What's going on here?" Kathy screamed. "Danny! Chris! You stop this
right now, you hear!" She tried to pull them apart, but each was still
trying to get at the other, their eyes blazing with hate. Chris was
crying in his anger. It was the first time, ever, that the two brothers
had gotten into a fight.

She slapped each boy in the face-hard-and demanded to know what had
started this nonsense. "Danny started it," Chris sniffed.

"Liar' Chris, you started it," Danny scowled.

"Started what? What are you fighting about?" Kathy demanded, her voice
rising. There was no answer from either boy. Both suddenly withdrew from
their mother. Whatever happened, Kathy sensed it was their affair not
hers.

Then her patience snapped. "What is going on around here? First it's
Missy with her angels, and now you two idiots trying to kill each other!
Well, I've had it! We'll just see what your father has to say about all
this. You're both going to get it later, but right now I don't want to
hear another peep out of either of you! You hear me? Not another sound!"

Shaking, Kathy returned downstairs to her shelving. Cool down, she told
herself. As she passed Missy's room again, the little girl was humming
the same strange tune to herself. Kathy wanted to go in, but then
thought better of it and continued on into her own bedroom. She'd talk
to George later when she had a chance to be calmer about the whole
affair.

Kathy picked up a roll of shelf paper and opened the door to the walk-in
closet. Immediately a sour smell struck her nostrils. "Oh, God! What's
that?" She pulled the light chain hanging from the closet ceiling and
looked around the small room. It was empty except for one thing. On the
very first day the Lutzes had moved in, she had hung a crucifix on the
inner wall facing the closet door, just as she had done when they lived
in Deer Park. A friend had originally given her the crucifix as a
wedding present. Made of silver, it was a beautiful piece about twelve
inches long and had been blessed a long time before.

As Kathy looked at it now, her eyes widened in horror. She began to gag
at the sour smell, but couldn't retreat from the sight of the
crucifix-now hanging upside down!

6 December 24 -It was almost a week since Father Mancuso had visited 112
Ocean Avenue. The eerie episodes of that day and night were still very
much on his mind, but he had discussed them with no one-not with George
and Kathy Lutz, not even with his Confessor.

During the night of the twenty-third, he had come down with the flu. The
priest had alternated between chills and sweating, and when he finally
got up to take his temperature, the thermometer read 103 degrees. He
took some aspirin, hoping to break the fever. This was the Christmas
season, and with it began a host of clerical duties-a particularly bad
time for a priest to be indisposed. Father Mancuso fell into a troubled
sleep. Around four in the morning of Christmas Eve, he awoke to find his
temperature now up to 104 degrees. He called the Pastor to his rooms.
His friend decided to get a doctor. While Father Mancuso waited for the
physician, he thought again of the Lutz family.

There was something he couldn't quite put his finger on. He kept
envisioning a room he believed to be on the second floor of the house.
His head swam, but the priest could see it clearly in his mind. It was
filled with unopened boxes when he had blessed the home, and he
remembered he could see the boathouse from its windows.

Father Mancuso recalls that while ill in bed, he used the word "evil" to

himself, but thinks the high fever might have been playing tricks with
his imagination. He also remembers he had an urge, border*mg on
obsession, to call the Lutzes and warn them to stay out of that room at
all costs.

At the same time, in Amityville, Kathy Lutz was also thinking about the
room on the second floor. Every once in a while, Kathy felt the need for
some time to be by herself, and this was to be her own personal room.
She had also considered the room, along with the kitchen, for her
meditation. That third bedroom on the second floor would also serve as a
dressing room and storage place for her and George's growing wardrobes.

Among the cartons in the sewing room were boxes of Christmas ornaments
that she had accumulated over the years. It was time to unwrap the balls
and lights, get them ready to put on the tree her mother and brother had
promised to bring over that evening.

After lunch, Kathy asked Danny and Chris to bring the cartons down to
the livingroom. George was more interested in his fireplace logs and
only halfheartedly worked on the Christmas lights, testing the many
colored bulbs and disentangling their wires. For the next few hours,
Kathy and the children were busy unwrapping tissue paper that enclosed
the delicate, bright-colored balls; the little wooden and glass angels,

Santas, skaters, ballerinas, reindeer and snowmen that Kathy had added
to each year as the children grew up.

Each child had his own favorite ornaments and tenderly placed them on
towels Kathy had spread on the floor. Some dated back to Danny's first
Christmas. But today, the children were admiring an ornament that George
had brought to his new family. It was an heirloom, a unique galaxy of
crescents and stars wrought in sterling silver and encased in 24 karat
gold. There was a fixture on the back of the 6-inch ornament that let
one attach it to a tree. Crafted in Germany more than a century before,
it had been given to George by his grandmother, who in turn had received
it from her own grandmother.

The doctor had come and gone from the Rectory. He confirmed that Father
Mancuso did indeed have the flu and advised the ailing priest to remain
in bed for a day or so. The fever was in his system and could remain
high for another twenty-four hours. Father Mancuso chafed at the idea of
remaining idle. He had so much work to do. He agreed that upcoming items
on his busy calendar could be put off for a week, but some of his
clients in counseling could not afford the same kind of postponement.
Nevertheless, both the physician and the Pastor insisted that Father
Mancuso would only prolong his illness if he insisted upon working or
leaving his apartment.

There was one thing he could still do, however, and that was to call
George Lutz. The bad feeling he had about that second-floor room
remained and it made him as restless as his fever. When he finally made
the call, it was five p.m.

Danny answered the telephone and ran to get his father. Kathy was
surprised by the call, but not George. Sitting by the fireplace, he had
been thinking about the priest all (lay. George had felt an urge to call
Father Mancuso, but couldn't decide just what he wanted to say.

He was sorry to hear of Father Mancuso's flu and asked if there was
anything he could do. Assured there was nothing any man could do to
relieve the priest's discomfort, George began to speak of what was
happening at the house. At first it was a light conversation; George
told Father Mancuso about bringing down the ornaments to trim the
Christmas tree that Jimmy, his brother-in-law, would be delivering at
any moment.

Father Mancuso interrupted George. "I have to talk to you about
something that's been on my mind. Do you know the room on your second
floor that faces the boathouse-the one where you had all those unopened
boxes and cartons?"

"Sure, Father. That's going to be Kathy's sewing and meditation room
when I get a chance to fix it up. Hey, you know what we found in there
the other day? Flies! Hundreds of houseflies! Can you imagine, in the
middle of winter!"

George waited for the priest's reaction. He got it.

"George, I don't want you, or Kathy, or the children to go back into
that room. You have to stay out of there!"

"Why, Father? What's up there?"

Before the priest could answer, there was a loud crackling sound on the
telephone. Both men pulled back from their earpieces in surprise. George
couldn't make out Father Mancuso's next words. All that remained was an
irritating static noise. "Hello! Hello! Father? I can't hear you! There
must be a bad connection!"

From his end, Father Mancuso was also trying to hear George through the
static and only faintly heard the "Hello's." Finally the priest hung up,
then dialed the Lutzes' number again. He could hear the phone ringing,
but no one picked it up. The priest waited for ten rings before finally

giving up. He was very disturbed.

When he could no longer hear Father Mancuso through the crackling,
George had also hung up his receiver. He waited for the priest to call
back. For several minutes he sat in the kitchen and stared at the silent
telephone. Then he dialed Father Mancuso's private number at the
Rectory. There was no answer.

In the livingroom, Kathy began wrapping the few Christmas gifts she had
accumulated before moving to Amityville. She had gone to sales at Sears
and to the Green Acres Shopping Center in Valley Stream, picking up
bargains in clothing for her children and other items for George and her
family. Sadly, Kathy noted that the pile of boxes was rather small and
silently berated herself for not leaving the house to go out shopping.
There were few toys for Danny, Chris, and Missy, but it was too late to
do anything about it.

She had sent the children up to the playroom so she could work alone.
She thought about Missy. She had not answered her daughter's question
about talking angels. Kathy had put it off by telling Missy she'd ask
Daddy about it. But it never came up when she and George went to bed.
Why would Missy come up with such an idea? Did it have anything to do
with the child's peculiar behavior yesterday in her bedroom? And what

was she looking for in the sewing room?

Kathy's concentration was broken when George returned from the phone in
the kitchen. He had an odd expression on his face and was avoiding her
gaze. Kathy waited for him to tell her about Father Mancuso when the
front doorbell rang. She looked around, startled. "It must be my mother!
George, they're here already and I haven't even started supper!" She
hurried toward the kitchen. "You get the door!"

Kathy's brother, Jimmy Conners, was a big, strapping youth who genuinely
liked George. That evening, his face exuded a special warmth and charm.
He was to be married on the day after Christmas and had asked George to
be his best man. But when mother and son entered the house, Jimmy
lugging a sizable Scotch pine, both their faces changed at the sight of
George, who hadn't shaved or showered for almost a week. Kathy's mother,
Joan, was alarmed. "Where are Kathy and the kids?" she asked George.

"She's making supper, and they're up in the playroom. Why?"

"I just had the feeling something was wrong."

This was the first time his in-laws had visited the house, so George had
to show his mother-in-law where the kitchen was located. Then be and

Jimmy hefted the tree into the livingroom. "Boy! That's some fire you've
got going there!"

George explained that he just couldn't warm up; hadn't been able to
since the day they moved in, and that he had already burned ten logs
that day. "Yeah," Jimmy agreed. "It does seem kind of chilly around
here. Maybe there's something wrong with your burner or thermostat?"

"No," answered George. "The oil burner's working fine and the
thermostat's up to 80 degrees. Come on down to the basement and I'll
show you."

In the Rectory, Father Mancuso's doctor had warned him that one's body
temperature normally rises after five in the afternoon. Even though he
was uncomfortable and his stomach hurt, the priest's mind kept turning
to the strange telephone problems the Lutzes were having.

It was now eight o'clock, and his repeated attempts to contact George
had been fruitless. Several times he had asked the operator to check to
see if the Lutzes' phone was out of order. Each time it rang
interminably until a supervisor called him back to report no service
problems with the line. Why hadn't George called him back? Father
Mancuso was sure George had heard what he said about the second floor

room. Was there now something terribly wrong? Father Mancuso did not
trust 112 Ocean Avenue, he could wait no longer. He dialed a number he
normally used only for emergencies.

The Christmas tree was up at the Lutzes' home. Danny, Chi-is, and Missy
were helping their Uncle Jimmy trim it, each urging him to hang his own
ornaments first. George had returned to his own private world by the
fireplace. Kathy and her mother were in the kitchen talking. This was
her "happy" room, the one place in the new house where she felt secure.

She complained to her mother that George had changed since they moved
in.

"Ma, he won't take a shower, he won't shave. He doesn't even leave the
house to go to the office. All he does is sit by that damned fireplace
and complain about the cold. And another thing-every night he keeps
going out to check that boathouse."

"What's he looking for?" Mrs. Conners asked.

"Who knows? All he keeps saying is he's got to look around out there and
check on the boat."

"That doesn't sound like George. Have you asked him if there's anything
the matter?"

"Oh, sure!" Kathy threw up her hands. "And all he does is throw more
wood on the fire! In one week, we've gone through almost a whole cord of
wood."

Kathy's mother shivered and pulled her sweater tighter around her body.

"Well, you know, it is kind of chilly in the house. I've felt it ever
since I came in."

Jimmy, standing on a chair in the livingroom, was about to fix George's
ornament to the top of the tree. He too shivered. "Hey, George, you got
a door opened someplace! I keep getting a draft on the back of my neck."

George looked up. "No, I don't think so. I locked up everything before."

He felt a sudden urge to check the second floor sewing room. "I'll be
right back."

Kathy and Mrs. Conners passed him as they came in from the kitchen. He
didn't say a word to either woman, just ran up the stairs. "What's with

him?" Mrs. Conners asked.

Kathy just shrugged. "See what I mean?" She began to arrange the
Christmas gifts under the tree. When Danny, Chris, and Missy counted the
meager number of prettily wrapped packages on the floor, there was a
chorus of disappointed voices behind her.

"What are you crying about?" George was back, standing in the doorway.
"Knock it off! You kids are too spoiled anyway!"

Kathy was about to snap back at her husband for yelling at the children
in front of her mother and brother when she saw the look on George's
face.

"Did you open the window in the sewing room, Kathy?"

"Me? I haven't been up there all day."

George turned to the children near the tree. "Have any of you kids been
in that room since you brought down the Christmas boxes?" All three
shook their heads. George hadn't moved from his position in the doorway.
His eyes returned to Kathy.

"George, what is it?"

"A window is open. And the flies are back."

Crack! Everyone in the room jumped at the loud sound that came from
somewhere outside. Again came a sharp knock, and outside, Harry barked.

"The boathouse door! It's open again!" George turned to Jimmy. "Don't
leave them alone! I'll be right back!" He grabbed his parka from the
hall closet and headed for the kitchen door. Kathy began to cry.

"Kathy, what's going on?" Mrs. Conners said, her voice rising.

"Oh, Mama! I don't know!"

A man watched as George came out of a side door and ran toward the back
of the house. He knew the door led from the kitchen because he had been
at 112 Ocean

Avenue before. He sat in a car parked in front of the Lutzes' home and
observed George shut the boathouse door.

He glanced at his watch. It was almost eleven o'clock. The man picked up

the microphone of a car radio. "Zammataro. This is Gionfriddo. You can
call your friend back and tell him the people in 112 Ocean Avenue are
home."

Sergeant Al Gionfriddo of the Suffolk County Police Department was doing
a job this' Christmas Eve, just as he had been on the night of the DeFeo
family massacre.

7 December 25 - For the seventh night in a row, George awoke at exactly
3:15. He sat up in bed. In the winter moonlight flooding the bedroom,
George saw Kathy quite clearly. She was sleeping on her stomach.

He reached out his hand to touch her head. At that instant, Kathy woke
up. As she looked wildly about, George could see the fright in her eyes.
"She was shot in the head!" Kathy yelled. "She was shot in the head! I
heard the explosions in my head!"

Detective Gionfriddo would have understood what had frightened and
awakened Kathy. Filing his report after the initial investigation the
night of the DeFeo murders, Gionfriddo had written that Louise, the
mother of the family, had been shot in the head while sleeping on her
stomach. Everyone else, including her husband who was lying right beside

her, bad been shot in the back while lying in the same position. This
information bad been included in the material turned over to the Suffolk
County prosecution team, but never released to the news media. In fact,
this detail had never come out, even at Ronnie DeFeo's trial. Now, Kathy
Lutz also knew how Louise DeFeo had died that night. She was in the very
same bedroom.

George held his shaken wife in his arms until she had calmed down and
fallen back to sleep. Then once again, the urge to check out the
boathouse came over him, and George quietly slipped from the room.

He was almost upon Harry in his compound, when the dog awoke, springing
to his feet. "Shhh, Harry. It's all right. Take it easy, boy."

The dog settled back on his haunches and watched George test the
boathouse door. It was closed and locked. Once more he reached down and
reassured Harry. "It's all right, boy. Go back to sleep." George turned
and started back toward the house.

George circled around the swimming pool fence. The orb of the full moon
was like a huge flashlight, lighting his way. He looked up at the house
and stopped short. His heart leaped. From Missy's second floor bedroom
window, George could see the little girl staring at him, her eyes

following his movements. "Oh, God!" he whispered aloud. Directly behind
his daughter, frighteningly visible to George, was the face of a pig! He
was sure he could see little red eyes glaring at him!

"Missy!" he yelled. The sound of his own voice broke the grip of terror
on his heart and body. George ran for the house He pounded up the stairs
to Missy's bedroom and turned on the light.

She was in bed, lying on her stomach. He went to her and bent over.
"Missy?" There was no answer. She was fast asleep.

There was a creak behind him. He turned. Beside the window that looked
out at the boathouse, Missy's little chair was slowly rocking back and
forth!

Six hours later, at 9:30 in the morning, George and Kathy sat in the
kitchen, drinking coffee, confused and upset with the events that were
taking place in their new home. They had gone over some of the incidents
each had witnessed, and now were trying to put together what was real
and what they might have imagined. It was too much for them.

It was December 25, 1975, Christmas Day all over America. The promised
white Christmas hadn't materialized as yet for Amityville, but it was

cold enough to snow at any moment. Inside, their three children were in
the livingroom, playing near the tree with what few toys George and
Kathy had managed to accumulate before moving in eight days earlier.

George figured out that in the first week, he had burned over 100
gallons of oil and an entire cord of logs. Someone would have to go and
buy more wood and a few groceries such as milk and bread.

He had told Kathy about trying to reach Father Mancuso on the telephone
after the priest had warned him about their sewing room. Now Kathy
dialed his number herself and got no answer. She reasoned that the
priest might not be in his apartment because of the holiday and could be
visiting his own family. Then she volunteered to go for the wood and
food.

There was no question as to where Father Mancuso was on this Christmas
Day. He was in the Long Island rectory, still suffering. It had not
disappeared in the twenty-four hours forecast by the doctor, and his
fever had not gone below 103 degrees.

The priest roamed his rooms like a caged lion. An energetic worker who
loved the long hours he devoted to his calling, Father Mancuso refused
to remain in bed. He had a briefcase full of files; those that he had to

deal with as a family counselor, and those of some of his parish
clients. In spite of the Pastor's request that he rest, the priest would
put in a full day on Christmas. Above all, Father Mancuso could not
shake the uneasiness he felt about the Lutzes and their house.

George heard Kathy return from her shopping. He could tell she was
backing the van in because of the grinding sound the snow tires made in
the driveway. For some strange reason, the noise bothered him and he
became annoyed with his wife.

He went out to meet her, took two logs from the van, put them into the
fireplace, and then sat down in the livingroom, refusing to unload any
more. Kathy fumed; George's attitude and appearance were getting on her
nerves. Somehow she could sense they were heading for a fight, but she
held her tongue for the moment. She took the bags of groceries from the
van and left the remaining logs stacked inside. If George felt cold
enough, Kathy knew, he'd go get them himself.

She and George had cautioned Danny, Chris, and Missy to stay out of the
sewing room on the second floor, without giving them any reason. That
made the children even more curious about what might lie hidden behind
the now closed door.

"It could be more Christmas presents," Chris suggested.

Danny agreed, but Missy said, "I know why we have to keep out. Jodie's
in there."

"Jodie? Who's Jodie?" asked Danny.

"He's my friend. He's a pig."

"Oh, you're such a baby, Missy. You're always making up dumb things,"
sneered Chris.

At six o'clock that evening, Kathy was preparing supper for her family
when she heard the sounds of something tiny and delicate striking
against the glass of her kitchen window. It was dark outside, but she
could see it was snowing. White flakes were tumbling down through the
reflection of the kitchen light, and Kathy stared at them as the rising
wind whipped the snow against the pane. "Snow at last," she said.

Christmas and snow: it brought a reassuring sense of familiarity to the
troubled woman. She recalled her own childhood days. There always seemed
to be snow at Christmas time when she was young. Kathy kept looking at
the little snowflakes. Outside, the multicolored lights from

neighborhood Christmas trees gleamed through the night. Behind her, the
radio was playing Christmas carols. She became peaceful in her happy
kitchen nook. After supper, George and Kathy sat silently in the
livingroom. The Christmas tree was all lit up and George's tree-topping
ornament made a beautiful addition to the decorations. Reluctantly he
had gone out to the van and brought in more of the wood. There now were
six logs in front of the blazing fireplace, just enough to last through
the night at the rate George was shoveling them in.

Kathy worked on some of the children's clothes, patching the boys'
trousers that were forever wearing through the knees, letting down a few
of Missy's denim pants. The little girl was growing taller, and already
the hems were above the tops of her shoes.

At nine o'clock, Kathy went up to the third floor playroom to get Missy
ready for bed. She heard her daughter's voice coming from her bedroom.
Missy was talking out loud, obviously speaking to someone else in the
room. At first Kathy thought it was one of the boys, but then she heard
Missy say: "Isn't the snow beautiful, Jodie?" When Kathy entered, her
daughter was sitting in her little rocker by the window, staring at the
falling snow outside. Kathy looked around the bedroom. There was no one
there.

"Who're you talking to, Missy? An angel?"

Missy looked around at her mother. Then her eyes went back to a comer of
the room. "No, Mama, just Jodie."

Kathy turned her head to follow Missy's glance. There was nothing there
but some of Missy's toys on the floor. "Jodie? Is that one of your new
dolls?"

"No. Jodie's a pig. He's my friend. Nobody can see him but me."

Kathy knew that Missy, like other children of her age, often created
people and animals to talk to, so she assumed it was the child's
imagination at work again. George had not yet told her of the incident
in Missy's room the night before.

There was another surprise waiting for Kathy when she got to the top
floor a few minutes later. Danny and Chris were already in their own
bedroom, changing into their pajamas. Usually both boys fought to stay
up past ten. This night, at nine-thirty, they were getting ready without
being told. Kathy wondered why.

"What's the matter with you two? How come you're not arguing about going

to sleep?"

Her sons shrugged, continuing to undress. "It's warmer in here, Mama,"
Danny said. "We don't want to play in there anymore."

When Kathy checked in there, she was struck by the freezing chill in the
playroom. No windows were open, yet the room was ice cold. It certainly
wasn't uncomfortable in Danny and Chris' bedroom, nor in the hallway.
She felt the radiator. It was hot!

Kathy told George about the cold in the upstairs playroom. Too
comfortable by the fireplace to want to move, he said he'd check it out
in the morning. At midnight, Kathy and George finally went to bed.

The snow had stopped falling in Amityville, as it had fifteen miles away
outside the windows of the Long Island rectory. Father Mancuso turned
away from his window. His head hurt. His stomach pained from the flu
cramps. The priest was perspiring, and the feeling of suffocating heat
made him take off his bathrobe. When he did remove the robe, he began to
shiver with a fit of uncontrollable chills.

Father Mancuso couldn't wait to get back into bed. It was cold under the
blanket, and he realized be could see his breath in the air. "What the

hell's going on?" he muttered to himself. The priest reached out to
touch the radiator next to his bed. There was absolutely no heat.

The sick man now felt his body starting to sweat again. Father Mancuso
burrowed deep under the blanket, curling up in a tight ball. He closed
his eyes and began to pray.

8 December 26 - One night-George doesn't remember exactly which-he woke
again at 3:15 in the morning. He dressed and went out, and as he was
wandering around in the freezing darkness, he wondered what in God's
name he was looking for in the boathouse. Harry, their tough half-breed
watchdog, didn't even wake up when George stumbled over some loose wire
near Harry's compound.

When the Lutzes lived in Deer Park, Harry also had his own doghouse and
slept outside in all kinds of weather. Normally he would remain awake,
on guard, until two or three in the morning before finally settling down
and going to sleep. Any unfamiliar noise would bring Harry to alert
attention. Since they had moved to 112 Ocean Avenue, the dog was usually
fast asleep whenever George went out to the boathouse. He would awake
only when his master called to him.

George vividly remembers the day after Christmas, however, because that
was the date set for Jimmy's wedding. It was also the beginning of a
severe case of diarrhea he developed after checking out the boathouse.
The pain was intense at first, almost as if a knife had pierced his
stomach. George became frightened when he felt nausea rising in his
throat. As soon as he re-entered the house, he made a dash for the
bathroom on the first floor.

It was daylight outside when he settled back into bed. The abdominal
cramps were intense, but finally he fell asleep out of sheer exhaustion.
Kathy awoke a few moments later and immediately roused him to remind him
of the wedding affair that evening. There would be a lot of arrangements
to be handled before her brother came to pick them up. She would be busy
with her clothes and hair. George groaned in his half-sleep.

Before going down to prepare breakfast for herself and the children,
Kathy went up to the third floor to check the playroom. It was still
cold inside when she opened the door, but not as icy as the day before.
George might not like to move from his fire, but he would just have to
in order to check the radiator. It was working all right, but there was
no heat in the room.

Certainly the children couldn't stay in there any length of time, and

Kathy wanted them out of the way until it was time for them to dress for
the wedding. She looked out of the window and saw the ground covered
with slush from the melted snow. That settled it. The three would remain
indoors today. She decided they would have to play in their own
bedrooms.

After they were fed, Missy obediently started up to her own bedroom.
Kathy warned her that she was not to go into the sewing room; that she
was not even to open the door. "That's okay, Mama. Jodie wants to play
in my room today."

"That's my good girl," Kathy smiled. "You go and play with your friend."
The boys wanted to play outside, arguing that this was their Christmas
vacation from school. It was the way they persisted and answered her
back that angered Kathy. Danny and Chris never questioned her requests
before this, and she was becoming more aware that her two sons had also
changed since they had been in the new house.

But Kathy was not yet aware of her own personality changes, her
impatience and crankiness.

"That's enough out of both of you!" she yelled at her sons. "I see
you're asking for another beating! Now shut your mouths and get up to

your room like I said, and stay there until I call you! You hear me?
Scat! Upstairs!" Sullenly, Danny and Chris mounted the stairs to the
third floor, passing George on his way down. He didn't acknowledge them.
They didn't say good morning to him.

In the dinette, George took one sip of coffee, clutched his stomach, and
headed back upstairs to his bathroom. "Don't forget you've got to shave
and shower today!" Kathy yelled after him. Considering George's speed in
running up the stairs she wasn't sure he had heard her.

Kathy returned to her breakfast nook. She had been making up a shopping
list, checking items in the refrigerator and cabinets that had to be
replaced. Food was again running low, and she knew she just had to get
herself up and out of the house. She couldn't depend on George to do it.
The big freezer in the basement, one of the free items they had received
from the DeFeo estate, was clean and could be filled with meats and
frozen foods. Her cleaning materials were almost exhausted, since she
had been scrubbing the toilet bowls day after day. Most of the blackness
was gone by now.

Kathy planned to go to an Amityville supermarket the next morning,
Saturday. She wrote "orange juice" on her pad. Suddenly she became aware
of a presence in the kitchen. In Kathy's current state of mind over the

eroding situation of her family, the memory of the first touch on her
hand flooded back, and she froze. Slowly, Kathy looked over her
shoulder. She could see the kitchen was empty-but at the same time, she
sensed that the presence was closer, almost directly behind her chair!
Her nostrils caught a sweetish scent of perfume, and she recognized it
as the odor that had permeated her bedroom four days before.

Startled, Kathy could actually feel a body pressing against hers,
clasping its arms around her waist. The pressure was light, however, and
Kathy realized that as before, it was a woman's touch-almost reassuring.
The unseen presence didn't give her a sense of danger-not at first. Then
the sweet smell became heavier. It seemed to swirl in the air, making
Kathy dizzy. She started to gag, then tried to pull away from a grip
that tightened as she struggled. Kathy thought she heard a whisper, and
she recalls something deep within her warning her not to listen. "No!"
she shouted. "Leave me alone!" She struck out at the empty air. The
embrace tightened, hesitated. Kathy felt a hand on her shoulder, making
the same motions of motherly reassurance she had felt the first time in
her kitchen.

Then it was gone! All that remained was the odor of the cheap perfume.
Kathy stumped back into her chair and closed her eyes. She began to cry.
A hand touched her shoulder. Kathy jumped. "Oh, God, no! Not again!" She

opened her eyes.

Missy was standing there, calmly patting her on the arm. "Don't cry,
Mama." Then Missy turned her head to look back at the kitchen doorway.
Kathy looked too. But there was nothing there.

"Jodie says you shouldn't cry," Missy said. "He says everything will be
all right soon."

At nine that morning, Father Mancuso had awakened in the Long Island
rectory and taken his temperature. The thermometer had still read 103
degrees. But at eleven o'clock, the priest suddenly felt better. The
cramps had disappeared from his stomach and his head felt clear for the
first time in days. Hurriedly he slipped the thermometer back under his
tongue: 98.6 degrees. His fever was gone!

Suddenly Father Mancuso felt hungry. He wanted to eat ravenously, but
knew he should ease back into his normal diet. The priest made tea and
toast in his kitchenette, his mind ticking off all the things that had
been backlogged from his heavy work schedule. He forgot completely about
George Lutz.

By the same time, eleven a.m., George Lutz had no thoughts for Father

Mancuso, Kathy, or his brother-inlaw's wedding. He had just made his
tenth trip to the bathroom, his diarrhea unrelieved.

Jimmy's wedding and reception, an expensively catered affair for fifty
couples was to be held at the Astoria Manor in Queens. George would have
a lot to do at the hall, but right now he couldn't have cared less. He
dragged himself back down the stairs to his chair by the fireplace.
Kathy came into the livingroom to tell him his office in Syosset had
telephoned. The men wanted to know when George planned on coming in to
work. There were surveying jobs that needed his supervision, and more
and more of the building contractors were beginning to complain.

Kathy also wanted to tell him about the second eerie incident in the
kitchen, but George waved her off. She knew it would be pointless to try
and reach him. Then, from upstairs, she heard the noise of Danny and
Chris fighting in their bedroom again, both boys screaming at each
other. She was about to shout up the staircase at them when George
bolted past her, mounting the steps two at a time.

Kathy couldn't bring herself to go after her husband. She stood by the
bottom of the stairs and listened to George's shouts. In a few minutes
there was silence. Then the door to Danny and Chris' bedroom slammed and
she heard George's footsteps coming back down. He stopped when he saw

Kathy waiting. They looked at each other, but neither spoke. George
turned and went back up to the second floor, slamming the door to his
and Kathy's bedroom.

George came down a half-hour later. For the first time in nine days, he
had shaved and showered. Dressed in clean clothes, he walked into the
kitchen where Kathy was sitting with Missy. The little girl was eating
lunch. "You get her and the boys ready by five," he said. Then George
turned and walked out.

At five-thirty, Jimmy came to pick up his sister and his best man, and
the children. They were due at the Astoria Manor by seven. From
Amityville to Queens, the Sunrise Highway was the fastest way, and the
trip to Astoria normally took an hour at most. The roads were reported
to be icy from the recent light snow, however, and it was a Friday
night. Traffic would be heavy and slow. Jimmy had played it safe by
arriving early at the Lutzes'.

The young bridegroom looked resplendent in his military uniform, his
bright face shining with happiness. His sister kissed him excitedly and
invited him into the kitchen to wait while George finished dressing.
Jimmy took off his raincoat and then, from his coat pocket, proudly
pulled out an envelope packed with fifteen hundred dollars in cash. He

had paid out most of the money at the Manor some months before; this was
the balance due. He said he had just withdrawn the money from his
savings account and it just about wiped him out. Jimmy put the money
back into the envelope and returned it to his raincoat pocket, leaving
the coat on the kitchen chair beside him.

George came down, neatly clad in a tuxedo. His face was pale from the
diarrhea, but he was freshly combed, his dark blonde beard framing his
handsome face. The two men went into the livingroom. George had let the
last of his fire burn itself out, and now he poked around the ashes
looking for any leftover embers to tamp out.

The children were dressed and ready, Kathy went upstairs to get her
coat. When she came down, Jimmy disappeared into the kitchen to get his
raincoat. He returned a moment later, hoisting it over his shoulders.

"Ready?" George asked.

"Ready as I'll ever be," Jimmy answered, automatically patting his side
pocket to check on the envelope of money. His expression froze. He
shoved his hand into the pocket, it came out empty! Jimmy searched the
other pocket. Again, nothing. He tore off the raincoat, shaking it, then
turned out every pocket in his uniform. The money was gone!

Jimmy ran back into the kitchen, Kathy and George following. The three
looked all over the room, then began an inch by inch search of the foyer
and livingroom. It was impossible, but Jimmy's fifteen hundred had
completely disappeared!

Jimmy became frantic. "George, what am I going to do?"

His brother-in-law put his arm around the distraught Jimmy's shoulder.
"Take it easy. The money must be around here somewhere." George moved
Jimmy to the door. "Come on, we're running late now. I'll look again
when I come back. It's here, don't worry."

Everything just welled up within Kathy and she let go, crying. As George
looked at his wife, the lethargy that had gripped him over the past week
fell away. He realized how hard he had been on Kathy; for the first time
he wasn't thinking only of himself. Then, in spite of the calamity that
had just befallen Jimmy, regard less of the weakness he still felt in
his loins from the diarrhea, George wanted to make love to Kathy. He
hadn't touched her since they had moved into 112 Ocean Avenue. "Come on,
honey. Let's go." He gave his wife a pat on her behind. "I'll take care
of everything."

George, Kathy and Jimmy got into Jimmy's car; the boys and Missy
clambered into the back seat. After closing the door, George stepped out
again. "Just a minute. I want to check Harry."

He crossed to the rear of the house. As he walked in the winter's
darkness, George called out, "Harry! You keep your eyes open, you hear!"

There was no answering bark. George came up to the wire fence of the
compound. "Harry? You there?"

By the reflection of a neighbor's light, he saw that Harry was in his
doghouse. George unlatched the gate and entered the compound. "What's
the matter, Harry, You sick?"

George bent down. He heard slow canine snoring. It was only six in the
evening, and Harry was fast asleep!

9 December 27 -The Lutzes returned home from the wedding at three A.M.
It had been a very long night. It began with the mysterious
disappearance of Jimmy's fifteen hundred dollars, and several other
incidents during the evening hadn't added any particular joy to George's
appreciation of the happy event.

Before the wedding ceremony, George, the other ushers, and the
bridegroom had taken Communion in a little church near the Manor. During
the ritual, George became violently nauseated. When Father Santini, the
Pastor of Our Lady of Martyrs Roman Catholic Church, gave George the
chalice of wine to drink, George started to sway dizzily in front of the
priest. Jimmy reached out a hand to his brother-in-law, but George
brushed it off and dashed toward the men's room at the rear of the
church.

After he had thrown up and returned to the hotel, George told Kathy lie
had actually become queasy the moment he had entered Our Lady of
Martyrs. The reception ran fairly smoothly. There was plenty of the
food, drinking, and dancing usually associated with an Irish wedding,
and everyone seemed to be having a good time. George had to go to the
bathroom only once, when he thought his diarrhea might be returning, but
generally he wasn't too uncomfortable. Kathy's brother and his new
bride, Carey, were leaving for their honeymoon in Bermuda directly from
the Manor and would take a cab to LaGuardia Airport. George would be
driving Kathy and the children back to Amityville in Jimmy's car, so he
didn't drink too much.

Then came the unpleasant moment of settling up with the hall's catering

manager. Jimmy, his new father-inlaw, and George told the man of the
unexpected loss of all the cash, but promised they would pay him his
money out of their wedding gifts. Unfortunately, when the traditional
"Congratulations are in order" was spoken, most of the envelopes left on
the table in front of the bride and groom contained personal checks. The
actual cash amounted to a little more than five hundred dollars.

The manager was upset, but after a few minutes of haggling, agreed to
accept two checks from George for five hundred dollars each--one from
his personal checking account, and the other drawn on George's surveying
company's account in Syosset.

George knew he didn't have the five hundred in his personal checking
account, but since the next two days were Saturday and Sunday, he would
have time to cover the draft on Monday.

Jimmy's father-in-law quickly conferred with his relatives and scraped
up enough cash for his new son-in-law to pay for the honeymoon. Luckily,
the plane tickets were already paid for. The wedding party broke up
around two, and the Lutzes headed back to 112 Ocean Avenue.

Kathy went up to bed immediately while George checked on the boathouse
and the dog's compound. Harry was still asleep, stirring only slightly

when George called his name. When he bent to pat the dog, George
wondered if Harry was drugged, but then dismissed the thought. No, he
was probably just sick. Must have eaten something lie found in the yard.
George straightened up. He'd have to take Harry to the vet. The
boathouse door was secure, so George returned to the house, locking the
front door. As he went to the kitchen, he glanced down at the floor,
hoping to spot the missing envelope of money. No luck.

The kitchen door and windows on the first floor were all locked. George
climbed the stairs to his bedroom, thinking about his wife and their
warm, soft bed. Passing the sewing room, he noticed the door was
slightly ajar. He thought of the children. One of them must have opened
it before they left the house. He'd ask them the next morning, when they
woke up.

Kathy was sleepy, but waiting for him. During the evening she had gotten
her husband's vibrations and was eager for his touch. George hadn't
touched her since they had moved in. Usually they had made love once a
night from the day they were married in July, but from December 18 to
December 27, George hadn't made a move in her direction. But now the
children were fast asleep, exhausted from their late evening. She
watched George undress, and all the misgivings of the past few days
melted from her mind.

He slipped under the heavy blanket. "Hey, this is wonderful!" George
reached for Kathy's warmth. "Alone at last, as they say."

That night, Kathy had a dream of Louise DeFco and a man making love in
the very same room she was lying in. When she awoke in the morning, the
vision remained with her. Somehow Kathy knew that the man was not
Louise's husband. It was not until several weeks after she and her
family had fled from 112 Ocean Avenue that she learned from an attorney
close to the DeFcos that Louise actually did have a lover, an artist who
lived with the family for a while. Mr. DeFeo must have known about the
affair and informed the lawyer.

In the morning, Kathy took the van to go shopping in Amityville while
George drove the children in Jimmy's car to pick up the mail at his
office in Syosset. He even gave Harry a ride, telling his employees he
would be in on Monday for sure.

They came home to find Kathy putting groceries into the kitchen
refrigerator. She had also brought back a load for the basement freezer.
Kathy bemoaned the fact that prices were higher in Amityville stores. "I
thought they would be," George shrugged. "Amityville is more affluent
than Deer Park."

By then it was after one o'clock. Though Kathy wanted to make lunch, she
still had to transport the additional frozen foods and meat into her
freezer in the basement. George volunteered to put together sandwiches
for himself and the children.

While Kathy was in the basement, the front door bell rang. It was her
Aunt Theresa. George had met the woman once before at his
mother-in-law's, before he and Kathy were married. Theresa had been a
nun at one time. Now she had three children, but George never did learn
the exact reasons for her departure from her order.

Now the former nun stood in the doorway, a short, thin woman in her
early thirties, plainly clad in a worn black wool winter coat and
galoshes. Her face was tired but ruddy from the cold. The weather was
bright and clear, the temperatures hovering in the low teens. Theresa
told George she had taken the bus to Amityville and walked from the
station.

George called down to Kathy that her aunt had come to visit. She said
she'd be right up, and told George to show Aunt Theresa around her new
home. The children greeted their great-aunt silently. Theresa's grim
face forestalled their natural inclination toward friendliness. Danny

asked to go outside with Chris. "Okay," George agreed, "but you have to
promise to stay within range of the house." Missy ran down the stairs to
the basement. George noted how sad Theresa looked when the children
didn't respond to her.

As he conducted Theresa around the first floor, pointing out the formal
dining room and the huge livingroom, George became aware of a chill in
the house-a clamminess he hadn't noticed until Aunt Theresa came. She
agreed that it had seemed rather cold when she entered the house. George
looked at the thermostat. It read 75 degrees, but George knew he'd have
to kindle the fire again.

They went up to the second floor. Theresa glanced disapprovingly at, the
smoked mirrors behind George and Kathy's bed. He could read her
thoughts-she believed that such a blatant display smacked of
vulgarity-and wanted to tell her that the DeFeos had left the mirrors.
But he decided to let the subject pass. The woman was still a nun at
heart!

Theresa followed George to the other rooms. She admired all the new
space they had, but when she and George stood outside the sewing room,
Aunt Theresa hesitated. George opened the door for her. She backed up a
few feet, her face turning pale.

"I won't go in there," she said, turning her back to him.

Had Theresa seen anything through the open door? George looked into the
room. There were no flies, thank God, or Kathy's reputation for
housecleaning would have suffered an irreparable blow! But George could
feel the room was ice cold. He looked at Theresa. She was still standing
implacably, her back to the room. He shut the door and suggested they
try the top floor.

When it came time to examine the playroom, the former nun balked again.

"No," she said, "that's another bad place. I don't like it." Just as
George and her Aunt came down, Kathy came up from the basement with
Missy. The two women hugged each other, and Kathy, guiding her aunt
toward the kitchen, said, "George, I'll finish up downstairs later. I
want to transfer some of the canned goods into a closet I found down
there. We can use it as a pantry." George went to the livingroom to
build up his fire again.

Theresa hadn't been in the house for more than a half hour when she
decided it was time to go. Having expected that her aunt would stay for
supper, Kathy was disappointed. "George can drive you back," Kathy

offered. But the older woman refused. "There's something bad in here,
Kathy," she said, looking about. "I must go now."

"But Aunt Theresa, it's so very cold out." The woman shook her head. She
stood up, pulled her heavy coat about her and was heading for the front
door when Danny and Chris came in with another young boy.

The three children watched Theresa nod to George and kiss Kathy lightly
on the cheek. As she strode out the door, Kathy and George looked at
each other, at a loss for words at the woman's strange behavior. Finally
Kathy noticed her sons and their playmate.

"This is Bobby, Mama," Chris said. "We just met him. He lives up the
street."

"Hello, Bobby," Kathy smiled. The little dark-haired boy looked about
Danny's age. Hesitantly, Bobby stuck out his right hand. Kathy shook it
and introduced George. "This is Mr. Lutz."

George grinned at the boy, shaking his small hand. "Why don't you three
all go upstairs and play?"

Bobby paused, his eyes darting about the foyer. "No. That's all right,"

he said. "I'd rather play down here."

"Here?" asked Kathy. "In the foyer?"

"Yes, m'am."

Kathy looked at George. Her eyes carried the unspoken question: What's
wrong with this house that makes everybody so uncomfortable?

For the next half-hour, the three boys played on the foyer floor, with
Danny's and Chris' Christmas toys. Bobby never took off his winter
jacket. Kathy went back to the basement to finish making the closet into
a pantry, and George returned to the livingroom fireplace. Then Bobby
stood up and told Danny and Chris that be wanted to go home. That was
the first and last time that the boy from up the street ever set foot in
112 Ocean Avenue.

The basement of the Lutzes' house was 43 by 28 feet. When George first
looked it over, he came down the stairs and saw off to the right batten
doors that led to the oil burner, hot water heater, and the freezer,
washers, and dryers left from the DeFeo estate.

To his left, through another set of doors, was a playroom, 11 by 28

feet, beautifully finished in walnut paneling, with recessed fluorescent
lights in a dropped ceiling. Directly in front of him was the area he
planned to use as his office.

A small closet opened into the space beneath the stairs, and between the
staircase and the right-hand wall, plywood panels formed an additional
closet, extending out about seven feet, with shelving that ran from the
ceiling to the floor. This walk-in area, George thought, made good use
of what would otherwise be wasted, space, and its proximity to the
kitchen stairs made it a most convenient pantry.

Kathy was working in these closets. When she stacked some large, heavy
canned goods against the closet's wall, one of the shelves cracked. One
side of the plywood paneling on the rear wall seemed to give a little.
She moved the cans aside and pushed against the panel. It moved farther
away from the shelving.

The closet was lit by a single bulb, hanging from the ceiling. The
bulb's reflection shone through a small slit opening just enough to give
Kathy the impression that there was an empty space behind the closet,
under the tallest section of the stairs. She went out to the basement
and called George to come down.

He looked at the opening and pushed against the paneling. The wall
continued to give a little more. "There isn't supposed to be anything
back there," he said to Kathy.

George removed the four wooden shelves, then shoved hard against the
plywood. It swung all the way open. It was a secret door!

The room was small, about four by five feet. Kathy gasped. From the
ceiling to floor, it was painted solid red. "What is it, George?"

"I don't know," he answered, feeling the three solid concrete block
walls. "It seems to be an extra room, maybe a bomb shelter. Everyone was
building them back in the late fifties, but it sure doesn't show up in
the house plans the broker gave us."

"Do you think the DeFeos built it?" Kathy asked, holding nervously onto
George's arm.

"I don't know that either. I guess so," he said, steering Kathy out of
the secret room. "I wonder what it was used for." He pulled the panel
closed.

"Do you think there are any more rooms like that behind the closets?"

Kathy asked.

"I don't know, Kathy," George answered. "I'll have to check out each
wall." "Did you notice the funny smell in there?"

"Yeah, I smelled it," George said. "That's how blood smells."

She took a deep breath. "George, I'm worried about this house. A lot's
happening that I don't understand." George saw Kathy put her fingers in
her mouth, a sign she was scared. Little Missy always did the same thing
when she was frightened. George patted his wife on the head.

"Don't worry, baby. I'll find out what the hell that room is all about.
But we can use it as an extra pantry!" He turned out the light in the
closet, shutting out the sight of the rear wall panel, but not obscuring
the fleeting vision of a face he glimpsed against the plywood. In a few
days, George would realize it was the bearded visage of Ronnie DeFeo!

10 December 28-On Sunday, Father Frank Mancuso returned to the Long
Island rectory after celebrating Mass in the church. It was only several
yards from one building to the other, but the priest felt his recent
weakness as he walked in the cold air.

In the Rectory's reception room there was a visitor waiting for
him-Sergeant Gionfriddo of the Suffolk County Police Department. The two
men shook hands, and Father Mancuso led Gionfriddo to his quarters on
the second floor. "I'm glad you called me," the priest said, "and I
appreciate that you came."

"That's all right, Father. It's my day off this week." The big detective
looked over the priest's apartment. The livingroom was filled with books
that overflowed the bookcases onto tables and chairs. He took a stack
off the couch and sat down.

Father Mancuso wanted to warm up and he had no liquor in his rooms to
offer the policeman, so instead he made some tea. While it brewed, he
got right to the point of his request for Gionfriddo's visit.

"As you know," he began, "I'm concerned about the Lutzes. That's why I
asked Charlie Guarino to contact somebody in Amityville to check if they
were all right." The priest walked into his kitchenette to get some cups
and saucers. "Charlie reminded me that they're living in the house where
that unfortunate DeFeo family was slain. I'd heard about the case from
some friends of mine, but I don't really know how it happened."

"I was on that case, Father," the detective interrupted.

"So Charlie told me when he called back the other night." Father Mancuso
brought the tea and sat down across from Gionfriddo. "Anyway, I had a
hard time falling asleep last night. I don't know why, but I kept
thinking about the DeFeos."

He looked up at Gionfriddo, trying to read the expression on his face.
It was difficult, even though Father Mancuso had years of experience in
probing people for facts, fancied or real; from his clients in family
counseling who came before him. He didn't know whether to reveal what
had happened to him on the first day in 112 Ocean Avenue or on the
telephone to George.

Gionfriddo quickly read the priest's thoughts and solved the problem.
"You think there's something funny going on in that house, Father?"

"I don't know. That's what I wanted to ask you."

The detective put down his cup of tea. "What is it you're looking for? A
haunted house? You want me to tell you there's something spooky about
the place?"

The priest shook his head. "No, but it'll help me if you can tell me
what happened the night of the murders. I understand the boy said he
heard voices."

Gionfriddo looked into a pair of piercing eyes and saw the priest was
troubled. He cleared his throat and put on his official voice. "Well,
basically, the story is that Ronald DeFeo drugged his family at dinner
on November 13, 1974, and then shot them all with a high powered rifle
while they were out cold. At his trial, he did claim a voice told him to
do it."

Father Mancuso waited for more details, but Gionfriddo had finished his
report. "That's it?" the priest asked.

Gionfriddo nodded. "Like I said, that's it, basically."

"It must have awakened the whole neighborhood?" Father Mancuso
continued.

"No. Nobody heard the shots. We found out about it later when Ronnie
went into The Witches' Brew and told the bartender. The Witches' Brew is
a bar near Ocean Avenue. The kid was stoned out of his head."

Father Mancuso was confused. "You mean he used a high-powered rifle to
kill six people, and no one heard all that noise?"

Gionfriddo thinks it was just about then that he began to feel nauseous
in the priest's apartment. He felt he had to leave. "That's right.
People in houses on both sides of the DeFeos said they never heard a
thing that night." Gionfriddo stood up.

"Isn't that rather peculiar?"

"Yeah, I thought so myself," the detective said, slipping on his
overcoat. "But you got to remember, Father, it was the middle of winter.
A lot of people sleep with their windows shut tight. At 3:15 in the
morning, they're dead to the world."

Sergeant Al Gionfriddo knew the priest had more questions, but he didn't
care. He had to get out of there. No sooner was he outside the Rectory
than he threw up.

By the time he returned to Amityville, Gionfriddo felt the uneasiness
passing. At first he thought of driving past 112 Ocean Avenue, but
changed his mind. Instead he headed home, rolling up Amityville Road. He
drove past The Witches' Brew on his right.

The Witches' Brew was a hangout for a lot of the kids in town,
especially during the season when Amityville was filled with
summer-house renters. But now, on a December Sunday afternoon,
Amityville Road, the main shopping street in town, was empty. The
pro-football playoffs were on television and the regulars were at home,
glued to their sets.

As he rode by, Gionfriddo didn't really notice the figure going into The
Witches' Brew. The detective was a good fifty feet beyond before he
swerved his police car and braked to a stop. He looked back, but the man
was gone. The shape of the body, the beard, and the swaggering walk were
the same as Ronnie DeFeo's!

Gionfriddo continued to stare at the doorway to the club. "Agh! I'm
getting jumpy," he muttered. "Who needs that priest?" The detective
turned around, jerked the gear shift into drive and pulled away from the
curb, burning rubber like a hotrodder.

Inside The Witches' Brew, George Lutz ordered his first beer. He
wondered why the bartender stared at him when he sat down at the bar.
The man opened a bottle of Miller's and was pouring it when he stopped.
He looked as though he was about to say something to George, but then

went ahead pouring the beer.

George looked around him. The Witches' Brew could have been any one of a
number of bars George had seen in his travels as a Marine corporal and
as a surveyor working the small towns and villages of Long Island: dimly
lit, the usual garish juke box, the smell of stale beer and smoke. There
was just one other customer in the place, down at the very end of the
long mahogany bar, absorbed by watching a television set above the bar
mirror as an announcer described the first-half action of the football
game.

George sniffed, took a gulp of his beer and looked at himself in the
mirror behind the bar. He'd had to get out of the house for a while, be
by himself. He couldn't get a handle on what was happening to his
family. The little bits and pieces that he would recognize later on were
still too isolated for him.

George couldn't understand what was wrong with the children since they
moved into the new house. In his eyes, they were wild, unmannered. That
had never been the case before, not when they lived in Deer Park.

He thought Missy was acting strangely. Did he really see a pig in her
window the other night? And where was Jimmy's money? How could it simply

disappear in front of them?

George finished his beer and signaled for another. His eyes returned to
his image in the mirror. He recalled now, earlier that week, he'd been
sitting like a dummy in front of the fireplace, then standing and
staring in the boathouse. Why? And now this business with that red room
in the basement. What the hell was that all about? Well, tomorrow he'd
begin to dig into the background of his house. The first place to do
that would be the Amityville Real Estate Tax Assessment Office, where he
could look at the record of improvements that applied to the property at
112 Ocean Avenue.

"Yeah," be muttered to himself, "and I got to get to the bank and cover
that check. Can't let that bounce." George drank down the last of his
second beer. At first he didn't notice the bartender standing in front
of him. Then he looked up and saw the man waiting. George covered his
glass with his hand to signal that he didn't want another.

"Excuse me, mister," said the bartender. "You passing through?"

"No," answered George. "I live here in Amityville. We just moved in."

The bartender nodded. "Well, you are a dead ringer for a young feller

from around here. For a moment I thought you was him." He rang up
George's money. "He's away now. Won't be back for a while." He put the
change on the bar. "Maybe never."

George took the money and shrugged. People were always mistaking him for
someone else they knew. Maybe it was the beard. A lot of guys wore them
these days. "Well, see you around." He headed for the entrance to The
Witches' Brew.

The bartender nodded again. "Yeah, drop in again."

George was at the door. "Hey!" asked the bartender. "By the way, where'd
you move into?"

George stopped, looked back, and pointed toward the general direction of
the west. "Oh, just a couple of streets from here. On Ocean."

The bartender felt George's used beer glass slipping from his hand. When
he heard George's final remark, "112 Ocean Avenue," it dropped from his
hand and crashed on the floor.

Kathy was waiting for George to come home. She sat in the livingroom by
the Christmas tree, not wanting to be in the kitchen nook by herself for

fear of meeting up with that invisible something that reeked of perfume.
The children were up in the boys' bedroom, watching television. They had
been quiet most of the afternoon, absorbed in an old movie. By the
delighted laughter that drifted down to her, Kathy was sure it was
Abbott and Costello.

Now she was trying to concentrate on where Jimmy's money could be. Again
Kathy and George bad gone over every square inch of the kitchen, foyer,
living and dining rooms, and closets looking for the envelope. It
couldn't just have vanished into thin air! No one could have possibly
been in the house to take it. Where the devil could it have gone?

Kathy thought about the presence in the kitchen and shuddered. She
forced her mind to think of other rooms in the house. The sewing room?
The red room in the basement? She began to get out of her chair, then
stopped. Kathy was afraid to go down there alone now. Anyway, she
thought, sitting back down, she and George hadn't seen anything but the
red paint when they were in there.

She looked at her watch. It was almost four o'clock. Where was George?
He bad been gone over an hour. Then, out of the comer of her right eye,
she saw movement.

One of Kathy's first Christmas gifts to George had been a huge,
four-foot ceramic lion, crouched, ready to leap upon an unseen victim,
and painted in realistic colors. George had thought it a pretty piece
and had moved it to the livingroom, where it now sat on a large table
beside his chair near the fireplace.

When Kathy turned and looked fully at the sculpture, she was sure she
had seen it move a few inches closer toward her!

After Sergeant Gionfriddo left Father Mancuso's apartment that
afternoon, the priest became angry with himself. He hated the way he was
handling the Lutz situation and resolved to break his obsession with the
whole affair. For the next several hours he dove into issues that were
coming up in Court the following week, poring over caseloads that had
piled up.

Realizing he had important decisions to make that would affect people's
lives, he now cleared his mind of abstractions like Gionfriddo's
unsatisfactory explanation of the DeFeo murders and the doubts he had
about the Lutzes' safety in that house. As he worked, he slowly became
aware that he was regaining his strength. The weakness he had felt in
the wintry air was gone. It was now after six, he was hungry, and he
reminded himself that he hadn't had anything to eat or drink since that

cup of tea with Gionfriddo.

Father Mancuso put down a file, stretched his body, and went into the
kitchenette. In the livingroom, the telephone rang. It was his private
number. He picked it up and said "Hello?" There was no answer, only
static crackling from the receiver.

The priest felt a chill run through his frame. As he held the telephone
in his hand, he began to perspire, recalling his last call with George
Lutz.

George was listening to the sharp, snapping pops on his own telephone.
It had rung while he was in the kitchen with Kathy and the children.
Finally, after no one answered his repeated hellos, George slammed the
receiver back on the hook.

"How do you like that? Some wise guy's on the other end playing games!"
Kathy looked up at her husband. They were eating supper, George had
shown up just a few moments before. He told her he had taken a very long
walk around the town and he was convinced the street they lived on in
Amityville was the nicest.

Kathy thought George looked better for having gotten out of the house.

She felt foolish about wanting to mention the lion and forgot,the
incident now that George was upset again. "What happened?" she asked.

"There was no one on the other end, that's what happened. It was just a
lot of static." He started to sit down again at the table.

"You know, it was just like the other time when I tried to talk to
Father Mancuso. I wonder if he's trying to reach us?" George went back
to the telephone and dialed the priest's private number.

He waited until it had rung ten times. There was no answer. George
looked at the electric clock over the kitchen sink. It was exactly
seven. He shivered a little. "Don't you think it's getting chilly in
here again, Kathy?"

Father Mancuso had just taken his temperature. It was up to 102 degrees.
"Oh, no," he moaned, "not that again!" He began to take his pulse,
holding a finger on his wrist. The priest started to count when the big
hand of his watch was exactly on twelve. He noted it was seven o'clock.

In one minute's time, his heart beat one hundred and twenty times!
Normally Father Mancuso's pulse ran about 80 beats per minute. He knew
he was going to be sick again.

George left the kitchen for the livingroom. "I'd better put some more
wood into the fireplace," he told Kathy.

She watched her husband shamble out of the kitchen. Kathy began to get
that depressed feeling again. Then she heard a loud crash from the
livingroom. It was George!

"Who the hell left this goddamned Eon on the floor? It almost killed
me!"

11 December 29 to 30 -The next morning Monday, George's ankle was stiff.
He had taken a nasty tumble over the porcelain lion and fallen heavily
against some of the logs by the fireplace. He also had a cut over his
right eye, but it hadn't bled much after Kathy put a Band-Aid on it.
What disturbed Kathy was the clear imprint of teethmarks on his ankle!
George limped out to his 1974 Ford van and had trouble turning over the
cold motor. With temperatures in the low twenties, George knew he could
anticipate ignition problems. But finally he got the van going and was
headed across the Island toward Syosset. His first order of business was
to cover the check he had written to the Astoria Manor. That meant
drawing funds from the account of William H. Parry, Inc., his land

surveying business.

Halfway to Syosset, on the Sunrise Highway, George felt a bump in the
back of the van. He pulled over and inspected the rear end. One of the
shock absorbers had come loose and fallen off. George was puzzled. This
was a mishap that might occur after the shocks were old and worn, if
then, but the Ford had gone only 26,000 miles. He drove on again
intending to replace the part once he returned to Amityville.

After George drove off that morning, Kathy's mother called to tell her
that she had received a card from Jimmy and Carey in Bermuda. "Why don't
you bring the children over to my house for a while?" Jimmy's car was
still in the driveway, but Kathy didn't feel like leaving home. She said
she still had a load of laundry to do, but that she and George might
come over New Year's Eve. They had made no plans as yet, and she would
ask George when he came back.

Kathy hung up and looked around, feeling at a loss as to what she should
do next. The depressed feeling from the day before was still with her,
and she was afraid to remain alone in the kitchen or go down to the
washing machines in the basement. After the ceramic lion incident, Kathy
also hesitated about going into the livingroom. She finally wound up
going upstairs to be near the children. With them, she thought, she

wouldn't feel so alone and frightened.

Kathy looked in on Missy in her bedroom and Danny and Chris in theirs
before going into her own room and lying down. She had been on the bed,
dozing, for about fifteen minutes, when she began to hear noises coming
from the sewing room across the hall. It sounded as if someone was
opening and closing a window.

Kathy got off the bed and went to the sewing room door. It was still
shut. She could see that Missy was in her own bedroom and she could hear
the boys running around on the floor above.

She listened. Behind the closed door, the sounds continued. Kathy stared
at the door, but did not dare open it. She turned around and went back
to her bedroom and got back on the bed, pulling the cover up over her
head.

In Syosset, George found a caller waiting for him. The man introduced
himself as an inspector from the Internal Revenue Service and explained
he was there to examine the company's books and past tax returns. George
called his accountant. The IRS agent spoke with him and made an
appointment to return on January 7th.

After the agent left, George got on with his priorities: withdrawing
five hundred dollars from the William H. Parry, Inc., account and
depositing it in his personal checking account; going over the plans
that had been completed for several land surveys; deciding how to handle
the few assignments that had come into the office since he had been
away; and then doing some research into the DeFeo family and the
background of 112 Ocean Avenue.

When the men on his staff asked him why he'd been out so long, George
told them only that he had been sick. He knew that was untrue, but what
other explanation would make any sense? By on,- o'clock, George had
completed his duties in Syosset. He planned to make one more stop before
heading back to Amityville.

Long Island's largest daily newspaper, in pages of advertising and
circulation, is Newsday. George reasoned that if there was any place
where he could learn some facts about the DeFeos, Newsday's Garden City
office would be the most logical starting point.

He was referred to the microfilm department, where a clerk checked the
cross-index files for the dates of the DeFeo murders and Ronnie's trial.
George only vaguely recalled the details of the way the son had
slaughtered the whole family, but he did remember that the trial had

been held in Riverhead, Long Island, sometime in the fall of 1975.

George put the microfilm of the newspaper into the reader and ran it
down until he came to November 14, 1974. One of the first items he
noticed was a photograph taken of Ronnie DeFeo at the time of his
arrest, the morning after the discovery of his family's bodies at 112
Ocean Avenue. The bearded twenty-four-year-old face staring back at him
from the picture could have been his own! He was about to read on, when
it hit George that this was the face he had seen fleetingly on the
closet wall in his basement!

The first articles told how Ronnie had run into a bar near his home,
calling for help, saying that someone had killed his parents, brothers,
and sisters. With two friends, Ronald DeFco returned to his house where
they found Ronald, Sr., 43; Louise, 42; Allison, 13; Dawn, 18; Mark, 11;
and John, 9. All were in their beds, all shot in the back.

The story continued that at the time of DeFeo's arrest the following
morning, Amityville police said that the motives for the murders were a
$200,000 life insurance policy and a strongbox filled with cash hidden
in his parents' bedroom closet.

The last item explained that when the prosecution was ready, the trial

would be held in the State Supreme Court at Riverhead.

George inserted another microfilm reel, this one containing the
day-by-day record of the seven-week trial held from September through
November. The record included charges of police brutality in forcing a
confession from Ronnie DeFeo, and went on to attorney William Weber's
parading psychiatrists to the stand to substantiate his plea of Ronnie's
insanity. However, the jury found the youth sane and guilty of murder.
Imposing a sentence of six consecutive life terms, State Supreme Court
Justice Thomas Salk called the killings the "most heinous and abhorrent
crimes."

George left the Newsday offices, thinking of the Coroner's report that
pinpointed the time of the DeFeos' deaths at about 3:15 in the morning.
That was the exact moment George had been waking since they'd been in
the house! He would have to tell Kathy.

George also wondered if the DeFeos had used the red room in the basement
as a secret hideaway for their money. As he drove back to Amityville,
George was so absorbed in thought that he never noticed or heard his
left tire wobbling.

As he stopped for a red light on Route 110, another car pulled

alongside. The driver leaned over and opened his window on the right
side. He tooted his horn to catch George's attention, then yelled that
George's wheel was coming off!

George got out and examined the wheel. All the bolts were loose. George
could feel them turn easily in his fingers. With his windows closed he
had dimly heard the racket, but being wrapped up in his thoughts, he
just never considered it was coming from his car.

What the devil was going on? First the shock absorber had fallen off,
now this. Was someone fooling around with the van? He or Kathy could be
killed if the wheel came off while driving at any speed.

George became even angrier and more frustrated when he looked for the
jack handle in the rear of the van. It was gone! He'd have to tighten
the bolts by hand until he could get to a service station. By then it
would be too late to do any further checking on the background of 112
Ocean Avenue.

On Tuesday Father Mancuso could no longer ignore the redness in the
palms of his hands, nor the excruciating pain he felt when he touched
the sore spots. Even though the doctor had given him antibiotic
injections, he had been unable to shake off this second flu attack. His

temperature remained high, and every ache and pain in his body seemed
intensified and magnified a hundred-fold.

The day before, Monday, Father Mancuso had accepted the redness that
developed in his palms as just another manifestation of his illness.
When the peculiar coloring and extreme sensitivity remained and it
became painful to pick up anything with his hands, Father Mancuso
started to become a great deal more concerned.

The next day, the Amityville Historical Society had some interesting
information for George, particularly about the very location of his
house. It seems the Shinnecock Indians used land on the Amityville River
as an enclosure for the sick, mad, and dying. These unfortunates were
penned up until they died of exposure. However, the record noted that
the Shinnecocks did not use this tract as a consecrated burial mound
because they believed it to be infested with demons.

For how many uncounted centuries the Shinnecocks carried on in this
manner, no one really knows; but in the late 1600's, white settlers
eased the first Americans out of the area, sending them farther out on
Long Island. To this day, Shinnecocks still own land, property, and
businesses on the eastern tip of the Island.

One of the more notorious settlers who came to the newly-named
Amityville in those days was a John Catehum or Ketcham who had been
forced out of Salem, Massachusetts, for practicing witchcraft. John set
up residence within 500 feet of where George now lived, continuing his
alleged devil worship. The account also claimed lie was buried somewhere
on the northeast comer of the property.

From the Real Estate Tax Assessment Office in town, George learned that
the house at 112 Ocean Avenue had been built in 1928 by a Mr. Monaghan.
It passed through several families until 1965, when the DeFeos purchased
it from the Rileys. But in spite of all be had read in the past two
days, George was no closer to a solution of what the mysterious red room
was used for or who built it. There was no record of any improvements
being made to the house that resembled the addition of a basement room.

It was the night before New Year's Eve. The Lutzes went to bed early.
George had checked the sewing room for Kathy, as he had done the night
before after returning from Newsday. Both evenings the windows had been
shut and locked.

Earlier they had discussed what George had discovered about the history
of their property and house. "George," Kathy asked nervously, "do you
think it's haunted?"

"No way," he replied. "I don't believe in ghosts. Besides, everything
that's happened around here must have a logical and scientific
explanation to it."

"I'm not so sure. What about the lion?"

"What about it?" he asked.

Kathy looked around the kitchen where they were sitting. "Well, what
about what I felt those two times? I told you I know somebody touched
me, George."

George stood up, stretching. "Oh, come on, honey, I think it's Just your
imagination." He reached for her hand. "I've had that happen to me too,
when I was sure my father had put his band on my shoulder in the
office." He pulled Kathy out of her chair. "I was positive he was
standing right beside me. It happens to a lot of people, but it's,
it's-I think they call it clairvoyance, or something like that."

The couple had their arms around each other's waists as George turned
out the light in the kitchen. They passed the livingroom on the way to
the stairs. Kathy stopped. She could see the crouching lion in the

darkness of the room.

"George. I think we should continue with our meditation. Let's do it
tomorrow, okay?"

"You think that way we can find a logical explanation for all that's
happened?" he asked, drawing her upstairs.

There was no logical or scientific explanation. for Father Frank Mancuso
as he prepared to go to bed. He had just prayed in his own rooms,
searching and hoping for an answer to the question of why his palms were
itching so terribly.

12 December 31 -The year 1976 was just around the corner. The last day
of the old year dawned on a heavy snowfall, and to many people that was
the signal that a fresh, clean start would usher in the new.

In the Lutz household, there was a completely different mood. George
hadn't slept well, even though he had been active enough for the past
two days, inside and outside the house. He awoke during the night,
looked at his watch and was surprised to find it was 2:30 A.M., not
3:15, as he anticipated.

George awoke again at 4:30 A.M., saw it was beginning to snow, and tried
to fall back to sleep under the warm covers. But, tossing and turning,
he couldn't find a comfortable position. In her sleep, Kathy was
bothered by his restlessness and rolled over against George so that he
was pushed to the edge of the bed. Wide awake, he kept having visions of
discovering secret caches of money around the house and using them to
solve all his financial problems.

George was beginning to choke with the pressures of mounting bills; for
the house he had just taken on, and for the office, where he would
shortly have a very serious payroll deficit. All the cash that he and
Kathy had saved had gone toward the expense of the closing, an old fuel
bill, and paying off the boats and motorcycles. And now the latest
blow-the investigation of his books and tax returns by the Internal
Revenue Service. Small wonder that George dreamed of a simple magical
solution to the bind he was in. He wished he could find Jimmy's money.
The fifteen hundred would be a lifesaver. George stared at the falling
snow. He had read in the newspaper account that Mr. DeFeo had been
extremely well off, with a big bank account and with a very good
position working for his wife's father in a big car dealership.

George had examined his bedroom closet and discovered Mr. DeFeo's secret

hiding place under the door jamb. The police had found it first at the
time of Ronnie's arrest and now it was empty, just a hole in the floor.
He kept wondering where else the DeFeos could have stashed away some of
their cash.

The boathouse! George sat up in bed. Maybe there was a meaning behind
his being drawn there every night. Was some-some thing dragging him
there? Was the dead man somehow urging him to look in there for his
fortune? George was desperate, he knew, even to contemplate such a
screwy idea. But why else would he be driven to the boathouse, night
after night?

At six-thirty, George finally gave up and got out of bed. He knew he
would never fall asleep again that morning, so he quietly slipped from
the room, went down to the kitchen, and made some coffee.

It was still dark outside at that hour, but he could see the snow was
beginning to pile up near the kitchen door. He saw a light on the ground
floor of his neighbor. Maybe the owner also had money problems and
couldn't sleep, he thought.

George knew he wouldn't go to the office that day. It was New Year's Eve
and everybody would be leaving early anyway. He drank his coffee and

planned to search the boathouse and basement for some clues. Then George
began to feel a chill in the house.

The thermostat automatically dropped the temperature between midnight
and six in the morning. But now it was almost seven and the heat didn't
seem to be on. George went into the livingroom and put some kindling and
paper into the fireplace. Before the wood blazed up, George noticed that
the brick wall was black from all the soot accumulated from his almost
constant fires.

A little after eight, Kathy came down with Missy. The little girl had
awakened her mother with delighted squeals. "Oh, Mama, look at all the
snow! Isn't it beautiful! I want to a go outside and play with my sled
today!" Kathy made her daughter breakfast, but couldn't eat anything
herself. She had coffee and a cigarette. George didn't want any food and
took only another cup of coffee. He had to get it from the kitchen
himself because Kathy didn't want to come into the livingroom. She told
George she had a bad headache. Kathy was frightened of the porcelain
lion and planned to get rid of it before the day was out. But it was
true that she did have a sick headache.

By nine o'clock, George had built the livingroom fire to a roaring
blaze. At ten o'clock, the snow was still falling. Kathy called out to

George from the kitchen that a local radio station had predicted the
Amityville River would be completely frozen by nightfall.

Reluctantly, George got up from his chair by the fireplace and dressed,
put on his boots, and went out to the boathouse. He hadn't had the money
to take the cabin cruiser out of the water for the winter. If the river
froze, ice would eventually crush the boat, but he had prepared for just
this kind of emergency.

George's mother had given him her paint compressor and he had drilled
holes in its plastic hose. Now he sank the hose in the water beside the
boat and turned on the compressor. It acted as a bubbler system that
would keep the water inside the boathouse from freezing.

All that morning, Father Mancuso had been looking at his hands, which
had begun to fester the night before. They were now dry, but angry red
blisters remained.

His fever also held at a high of 103'. When the Pastor had looked in on
him, Father Mancuso had promised to remain in bed for the rest of the
day. The priest did not mention what bad been happening to his hands. He
kept them in the pockets of his bathrobe.

When the Pastor left his rooms, Father Mancuso stared at the ugly
manifestation on his skin, and he became angry. All this suffering for
just one appearance in an inconsequential house in Amityville? The
priest was prepared to give himself in any way that God demanded, but at
least, he thought, let it be to help humanity. With all his training,
devotion, experience and skill, certainly there had to be some rational
explanation he could apply to the enigma. At the moment he couldn't, and
that accounted for his rage.

Along with his anger, the pains in his palms increased. He decided to
pray for relief. And as Father Mancuso asked for help, his concentration
on his misfortune decreased. The numbness in his tightly gripped hands
slowly diminished in its pressure. He spread his fingers and stared at
the blisters. The priest sighed and knelt to thank God.

Later in the afternoon was the second time Danny and Chris threatened to
run away from home. The first bad been when they lived in George's house
at Deer Park. He had restricted them to their room for a week, because
they were lying to him and Kathy about small things. They had revolted
against his authority: Both boys refused to obey his orders, threatening
to run away if he also forced them to give up television. At that point,
George called their bluff, telling Danny and Chris that they could get
out if they didn't like the way he ran things at home.

The two youngsters had taken him at his word. They packed all their
belongings-toys, clothes, records, and magazines-into bed rolls and
dragged the big bundles out the front door. When they were about halfway
down the street, desperately trying to move the heavy load, a neighbor
spotted them and talked them both into going back. For a while, they
stopped their childish fibbing, but now there had come a new eruption.

When she heard them fighting, Kathy had gone up to their room and found
the boys on one of the beds. Chris was straddling Danny's chest, ready
to clobber his older brother. On the other bed sat Missy, a broad grin
on her little face. She was clapping her hands with excitement.

Kathy pulled her sons apart. "What do you think you're doing?" she
screamed. "What's the matter with you two? Are you going crazy?"

Missy chimed in, "Danny didn't want to clean up the room like you told
him to."

Kathy looked sternly at the boy. "And why not, young man? Do you see
what this room looks like?"

The room was a mess. Toys were scattered all over the floor,

intermingled with discarded clothes. The tubes of an old paint set had
been left uncapped, the pigments oozing onto the furniture and rug. Some
of their new Christmas toys had already been broken and were discarded
in corners of the bedroom. Kathy shook her head. "I don't know what I'm
going to do with you. We bought this beautiful house so you'd have your
own playroom, and look at what you've done!"

Danny tore himself loose from his mother's grip. "You don't want us to
stay in that dumb old playroom!"

"Yeah!" Chris chimed in. "We don't like it around here. There's nobody
to play with!"

Kathy and the boys bickered back and forth for another five minutes
until Danny threw down the gauntlet and challenged his mother with the
threat of running away from home. Kathy, in turn, suggested corporal
punishment for their behavior. "And you know who dishes it out around
here!"

By dinner time, the Lutz family bad settled down. The boys had cooled
off, though Kathy could still feel an undercurrent of tension at the
table. George had told Kathy he preferred staying home this New Year's
Eve rather than facing drunks on the road home from her mother's house.

They had made no plans to be with their friends, and it was too cold to
go out to a movie.

After they had eaten, Kathy convinced George to move the ceramic lion
back up to the sewing room. Again there were some flies clinging to the
window pane facing the Amityville River. George angrily swatted them to
death before slamming the door shut.

By ten o'clock, Missy bad fallen asleep on the livingroom floor. She had
exacted a promise from Kathy to awaken her at midnight in time to blow
her party horn. Danny and Chris were still up, playing near the
Christmas tree and watching television. George was attending to his
fire. Kathy sat across from him, trying to lose her depression by
looking at an old movie with the boys.

As the night wore on, Father Mancuso's hands had been acting up again.
Now the blisters were worse, breaking out on the backs of his hands. He
couldn't put up with the thought of spending the entire night in pain
and fright. When his doctor looked in on him, he suddenly shoved his
palms out and said, "Look!"

Gently the physician examined the blisters. "Frank, I'm not a
dermatologist," he said. "This could be anything from an allergy to an

attack of anxiety. Has something been bothering you that badly?"

Father Mancuso turned sadly away from the doctor, his eyes staring out
the window at the snow. "I think so. Something..." The priest brought
his gaze back to the doctor "... or somebody."

The doctor assured the priest that he'd have some relief by the morning.
Then he left for a New Year's Eve party.

On television, Guy Lombardo saluted the New Year from the
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. The Lutzes watched the ball fall from the Allied
Chemical Building in Times Square, but did not share the countdown with
announcer

Don Grauer while he tolled off the last ten seconds of 1975.

Danny and Chris had -one up to their room about a half hour earlier,
their eyes red from too much television and the smoke from George's
fire. Kathy had put Missy into her bed and then come back downstairs to
her chair across from George.

It was now exactly one minute after twelve. She stared into the
fireplace, hypnotized by the dancing flames. Something was materializing

in those flames-a white outline against the blackened bricks-becoming
clearer, more distinct.

Kathy tried to open her mouth to say something to her husband. She
couldn't. She couldn't even tear her eyes away from the demon with horns
and a white peaked hood on its head. It was getting larger, looming
toward her. She saw that half of its face was blown away, as if hit with
a shotgun blast at close range. Kathy screamed.

George looked up. "What's the matter?" he said.

All Kathy could do was to point into the fireplace. George followed her
gaze and he saw it too-a white figure that had burned itself into the
soot against the rear bricks of the fireplace.

13 January 1, 1976 - George and Kathy finally went to bed at one in the
morning. They had been sleeping for what later seemed to them no more
than five minutes when they were awakened by a howling wind roaring
through their bedroom.

The blankets on the bed had been virtually torn from their bodies,
leaving George and Kathy shivering. All the windows in the room were

wide open, and the bedroom door, caught by the drafts, was swinging back
and forth.

George leaped from the bed and ran to close the windows. Kathy gathered
the blankets off the floor and threw them back onto the bed. Both were
breathless from their sudden awakening, and even though the door to
their room had slammed shut, they could still hear the wind blowing out
in the second floor hallway.

George wrenched open the door and was hit by another cold blast.
Flipping on the light switch in the ball, he was startled to see the
doors to the sewing room and dressing room wide open, the gale rushing
freely through the open windows. Only the door to Missy's bedroom
remained shut.

He ran into the dressing room first, fighting against the gale that bit
him, and managed to force the windows down. Then he went to the sewing
room and, with the cold now bringing tears to his eyes, closed one
window. But George could not budge the open window that faced the
Amityville River. He banged furiously on its frame with his fists.
Finally it gave and slid to a close.

He stood there, trying to catch his breath, shaking in his pajamas. The

wind was no longer blowing through the house, but he could hear it,
gusting violently outside. The chill remained. George took one more look
around the room before he remembered Kathy. "Honey?" he called out. "You
all right?"

When Kathy followed her husband out into the hallway, she too had seen
the open doors, and that Missy's door remained shut. Her heart thumping,
Kathy had run to her daughter's room and burst through the doorway. She
turned on the light.

The room was warm, almost hot. The windows were shut and locked, and the
little girl was fast asleep in her bed. There was something moving in
the room. Then she saw it was Missy's chair, beside the window, slowly
rocking back and forth. Then she head George's voice. "Honey? You all
right?"

George came into the bedroom. The heat struck him; it was like stepping
in front of a fire. George took it all in at once--the little girl
safely asleep, his wife standing at the side of Missy's bed, the
incredulous look of fright on Kathy's face, and the small chair
teetering back and forth.

He took one step toward the rocking chair and it immediately ceased its

movements. George stopped in his tracks, stood absolutely still, and
motioned to Kathy. "Take her downstairs! Hurry!"

Kathy didn't question George. She lifted the little girl off the bed,
blankets and all, and hurried from the room. George came out right
behind them and slammed the door, not even bothering to turn off the
light. Kathy went carefully down the steps toward the first floor. It
was ice cold in the hallway. George ran up the staircase to the top
floor where Danny and Chris were sleeping.

When he came back down from the third floor a few minutes later, he saw
Kathy sitting in the dark livingroom. She held Missy in her arms, the
little girl still fast asleep on her lap. He turned on the light in the
room, the chandelier casting shadows into the corners.

Kathy turned from the fireplace to look up at George questioningly.
"They're all right," he nodded. "They're both sleeping. It's cold up
there, but they're okay." Kathy let out her breath. He saw its vapor
hang in the cold air.

George hurriedly started a fire. His fingers were numb and he suddenly
realized that he was barefoot and hadn't thrown anything on over his
pajamas. George finally got a small blaze going with newspaper, then

fanned the flame with his hand until some of the old kindling caught
fire. Crouched in front of the fireplace, he could hear the winds
howling outside. Then he turned and looked at Kathy over his shoulder.
"What time is it?"

That was the only thing he could think of to say, George Lutz recalls.
He remembers the look on Kathy's face when he asked the question. She
stared at him for a moment, then replied, "I think it's about ..." But
before Kathy could finish, she burst into tears, her whole body shaking
uncontrollably. She rocked Missy back and forth in her arms, sobbing.
"Oh, George, I'm frightened to death!"

George stood up and walked over to his wife and daughter. He crouched
down in front of the chair and put his arms around both. "Don't cry,
honey," he whispered, "I'm here. Nobody's going to hurt you or the
baby."

The three remained in that position for some time. Slowly the fire
burned brighter and the room began to warm up. It seemed to George that
the winds were diminishing outside. Then he heard the oil burner click
on in the basement and he knew it was exactly six o'clock in the morning
on New Year's Day.

By nine A.M., the temperature in 112 Ocean Avenue had risen to the
thermostat-control led 75 degrees. The icy chill in the house had
dissipated. George had made an inspection tour of each window, from the
first floor to the third. There was no visible evidence that anyone had
tampered with the locks on the windows of the second floor, and George
remained completely baffled as to how such a bizarre event could have
taken place.

Looking back at the episode, he claims that at that time, he and Kathy
couldn't think of any reason for the windows behaving the way they did
except for a freak of nature-that the hurricane-strength winds had
somehow forced the windows up. But he can't answer why it happened only
to the second floor windows and not to any others in the house. Suddenly
George felt an urge to go to his office. It was a holiday, no one would
be in, but he felt compelled to check on his company's operations.

William H. Parry, Inc., had four crews of engineers and surveyors in the
field. The company had created the plans and blueprints for the largest
building complex to date in New York City, and for the Glen Oaks Towers
in Glen Oaks, Long Island, and was also responsible for planning a
forty-block urban renewal project in Jamaica, Queens. In addition, there
were several small surveys for title companies. The coordination for
setting up each day's work was quite intricate, and for the past few

weeks, George had been leaving that assignment to one of the
draftsmen-an experienced employee who had worked for his father and
grandfather.

Over the past year, after he had taken full control of the company from
his mother, George's main concern had been with collecting from the city
and construction companies that used his services. The company's payroll
and expenses were much larger than they had been when George's father
was alive. There was also the matter of paying off six cars and new
field equipment. George realized he had been slacking off; it was time
to resume his share of the responsibilities.

At ten in the morning, Father Mancuso was also awake. He hadn't slept
much and had gotten up several times during the night to soak his
blistered hands in Burow's Solution as the doctor had recommended. The
priest had been out of bed since seven, even though he was enervated by
flu and did feel better when he was lying down.

The medication had relieved some of the discomfort and itching in his
palms, but the prescription for his flu had no effect on his high fever.
In an effort to concentrate on other things besides his mysterious
affliction, Father Mancuso tried reading some of his subscription
magazines, searching for articles to divert his attention from his

problem. In the succeeding three hours he read through over a dozen new
and old periodicals. Then he noticed a slight discoloration on the last
magazine he had held.

The priest turned over his hands. The palms were smearing. The blisters
looked as if they were about to burst.

By noontime George was in Syosset, working with his adding machine. He
had discovered that the money that was coming in didn't balance with
what was going out. The accounts payable column was becoming too one
sided lately, and he knew he would have to cut back on his field crews
and office personnel.

George hated the idea of depriving men of their livelihood, particularly
when he knew they'd have a hard time finding other jobs in the suffering
construction industry. But it had to be done, and he wondered where to
begin. George didn't dwell too long on the subject, however, because lie
had other pressing problems. Before the banking week was up the next
day-Friday-he would again have to transfer funds from one company bank
account to another to cover checks that had been issued to suppliers.
Deeply involved in these manipulations, George didn't notice the passing
time. For the first moments since December 18, George Lutz was not
thinking about himself or 112 Ocean Avenue.

But his wife was thinking-thinking very bard about the house. Kathy
hadn't told George in so many words, but she was becoming convinced that
some of the events in the past two weeks had been the work of outside
forces. She was sure he would think her conclusions silly, and she had
been too embarrassed to tell George of her encounter with the ceramic
lion.

She now feels that she had become aware that the little bits and pieces
were adding up even before George had. She was frightened and wanted to
talk to someone. She thought of her mother, but quickly dismissed the
idea. Joan Conners was very religious and would insist that Kathy
immediately talk to her old parish priest.

Kathy wasn't quite ready to enter into a world of ghosts and demons; she
wanted the discussion to remain on a more general level at first. In her
heart, however, she knew perfectly well where the subject would
eventually lead.

She went into the kitchen and dialed the phone number of the one person
who would understand what she was looking for-Father Mancuso.

She heard the connection go through and the first ring on the other end.

As Kathy waited for the second ring, she suddenly became aware that the
kitchen was pervaded by a sweet odor of perfume. Her flesh crawled as
she waited for the familiar touch on her body.

Father Mancuso's number rang again, but Kathy never heard it. She had
hung up the telephone and run from the room.

In the Rectory, Father Mancuso had been bathing his hands in the
solution and found that the bleeding in his palms had stopped. The
priest had a towel in his hands when the telephone rang in his
livingroom. He picked up his telephone after the second ring.

When he said, "Hello?" the line was disconnected. He looked at the
instrument. "Well! What was that all about?" Then Father Mancuso thought
of George Lutz and shook his head. "Oh, no! I'm not going through that
business again!" He put down the receiver and went back into the
bathroom.

The priest looked at his blisters. Disgusting, he thought. Then he
looked up at his face in the mirror. "When will this end?" he said to
his reflection. His illness certainly showed. The circles under his eyes
were darker and there was an unhealthy pallor to his skin. Father
Mancuso gingerly felt his beard. It needed a trimming, but the hand

would never be steady enough to hold a pair of scissors.

Father Mancuso says that staring at his reflection in the mirror
suddenly made him think of the subject of demonology. The priest was
aware of the scope of the field and the various occult phenomena its
study embraces. He had never liked the subject, not even when he was
taking the course in his student days at the seminary, and he had never
tried to become too knowledgeable.

Father Mancuso knows of other priests who have concentrated on
demonology, but he's never met an exorcist. Every priest is empowered to
perform the Rites of Exorcism, but the Catholic Church prefers that this
dangerous ceremony be restricted to those clerics who have become
specialists in dealing with obsession and possession.

Father Mancuso had kept looking into his own eyes in the bathroom
mirror, but found no answers to his dilemma. He felt it was time he
confided in his friend, the Pastor of the Long Island rectory.

The morning snowfall had made traveling on the roads hazardous. As the
day wore on, it got colder, and cars began to get caught in drifts and
skid on icy spots all over Long Island. But the snow had stopped falling
while George was driving back to Amityville from his office, and he made

it home all right.

The driveway of 112 Ocean Avenue was heavy with fresh snow. George saw
he would have to clear a path to the garage before moving the van into
the driveway. I'll do it tomorrow, he thought, and left the vehicle
parked on the street, which had been recently plowed by the city's snow
trucks.

He noted that Danny and Chris had been out playing in the snow. Their
sleds were parked up against the steps leading to the kitchen door. As
he stepped inside, he saw that they had left a trail of melting snowy
footprints through the kitchen and up the staircase. Kathy must be
upstairs, he thought. If she'd seen the slush they'd tracked into her
clean house, there would have been hell to pay.

George found his wife in their bedroom, lying on the bed, reading to
Missy from one of the little girl's new Christmas story books. Missy was
gleefully clapping her hands. "Hi gang!" he said.

His wife and daughter looked up. "Daddy!" they chorused together,
leaping off the bed and encircling George with delight. For the first
time in what seemed ages to Kathy, the Lutz family had a happy supper
together. Unknown to her, Danny and Chris, forewarned by George, had

sneaked back down to the kitchen and wiped away all traces of their
snowy entry. They sat at the table, their faces still ruddy from hours
spent romping in the cold air, and wolfed down the hamburgers and french
fries their mother had prepared especially for them.

Missy kept the family in smiles with her aimless chatter and the way she
kept sneaking fries off the boys' plates when they weren't looking. When
caught, Missy would turn her face toward her accuser and flash a
mouthful of teeth, minus one, to disarm him.

Kathy felt more secure with George home. Her fears had momentarily
calmed and she gave no further thought to the latest whiff of perfume
earlier that afternoon. Maybe I'm getting paranoid about the whole
thing, she thought to herself. She looked about the table. The warm
atmosphere certainly didn't portend a visit from any more ghosts.

As for George, he had let his depressing business operations retreat to
the furthest recesses of his mind. It was as though he had entered a
little cocoon at 112 Ocean Avenue. This was the way he wanted life to be
all the time in his new house. Whatever the world outside had to offer,
the Lutzes would tough it out together from their home. He and Kathy
shared a steak. Then, lighting a cigarette, George wandered off to the
livingroom with the boys. George had brought Harry into the house to

feed him and then let him remain to rough it up with his two sons in
front of the fireplace. The Lutzes had eaten early, and so it was Only a
little after eight when Danny and Chris began to nod.

While the boys marched upstairs to bed, followed by Missy and Kathy,
George took Harry out to the doghouse. Wading through the snow that had
piled up between the kitchen door and the compound, he tied Harry to the
strong lead line. Harry crawled into his doghouse, turned around several
times until he found his right spot, and then settled down with a little
sigh. While George stood there, the dog's eyes closed and he fell
asleep.

"That does it," said George. "I'm taking you to the vet on Saturday."

After putting Missy to sleep, Kathy returned to the livingroom. George
made his usual tour of the house, now double-checking every window and
door. He had already inspected the garage and boathouse doors when he
took Harry outside.

"Let's see what happens tonight," he told Kathy when he came back down.
"It's not blowing at all out there."

By ten p.m., both George and Kathy were feeling drowsy. His blazing fire

was running out, but the heat was affecting their eyes. She waited until
George had poked out the last embers and had poured water over some
still-smoldering pieces of wood. Then Kathy turned off the chandelier
and looked around to take her husband's hand in the darkness. She
screamed.

Kathy was looking past George's shoulder at the livingroom windows.
Staring back at her were a pair of unblinking red eyes!

At his wife's scream, George whirled around. He also saw the little
beady eyes staring directly into his. He jumped for the light switch,
and the eyes disappeared in the shining reflection in the glass pane.

"Hey!" George shouted. He burst through the front door into the snow
outside.

The windows of the livingroom faced the front of the house. It didn't
take George more than a second or two to get there. But there was
nothing at the windows.

"Kathy!" he shouted. "Get my flashlight!" George strained his eyes to
see toward the back of the house in the direction of Amityville River.

Kathy came out of the house with his light and his parka. Standing
beneath the window where they had seen the eyes, they searched the
fresh, unbroken snow. Then the yellow beam of the flashlight picked up a
line of footprints, extending clear around the corner of the house.

No man or woman had made those tracks. The prints had been left by
cloven hooves-like those of an enormous pig.

14 January 2 - When George came out of the house in the morning, the
cloven-hoofed tracks were still visible in the frozen snow. The animal's
footprints led right past Harry's compound and ended at the entrance to
the garage. George was speechless when he saw that the door to the
garage was almost torn off its metal frame.

George himself had closed and locked the heavy overhead door. To wrench
it away from its frame would not only have created a great racket, but
would require a strength far beyond that of any human being.

George stood in the snow, staring at the tracks and wrecked door. His
mind raced back to the morning when he bad found his front door torn
open and to the night he had seen the pig standing behind Missy at her
window. He remembers saying out loud, "What the hell is going on around

here?" as he squeezed past the twisted door into the garage.

He turned on the light and looked about. The garage was still packed
with his motorcycle, the children's bicycles, an electric lawn mower
that had been left by the DeFeos, the old gas-powered machine he had
brought from Deer Park; garden furniture, tools, equipment, and cans of
paint and oil. The concrete floor of the garage was covered with a light
dusting of snow that had drifted through the partly opened door.
Obviously it had been off its frame for several hours.

"Is there anybody in here?" George shouted. Only the sound of a rising
wind outside the garage answered him.

By the time George drove off to his office, he was more angry than
frightened. If he had any terror of the unknown, it had been dismissed
by the thought of what it was going to cost him to repair the damaged
door. He didn't know if the insurance company would pay him for
something like this, and he just didn't need two to three hundred
dollars of extra expense.

George doesn't recall how he ever maneuvered the Ford van over the
dangerous snow- and ice-covered roads to Syosset. His frustration at
being unable to comprehend his bad luck blocked out any concern for his

own safety. At the office, he quickly occupied himself with his
immediate problems and for the next several hours was able to put aside
any thoughts about 112 Ocean Avenue.

Before he'd left home, George had told Kathy about the garage door and
the tracks in the snow. She had tried calling her mother, but there was
no answer. Then Kathy remembered that Joan always shopped on Friday
mornings rather than buck the Saturday crowds at the supermarket. She
went upstairs to her bedroom, intending to change the linen in all the
rooms and vacuum the rugs. Kathy's mind raced with the details of
thoroughly cleaning her house for the first time. If she didn't occupy
herself completely until George returned, she knew she'd fall to pieces.

She had just finished putting fresh cases on her .pillows and was
plumping them up when she was embraced from behind. She froze, then
instinctively called out, "Danny?"

The grip around her waist tightened. It was stronger than the familiar
woman's touch she had experienced in the kitchen. Kathy sensed that a
man was holding her, increasing the pressure as she struggled. "Let me
go, please!" she whimpered.

The pressure eased suddenly, then the hands released her waist. She felt

them move up to her shoulders. Slowly her body was being turned around
to face the unseen presence.

In her terror, Kathy became aware of the overwhelming stench of the same
cheap perfume. Then another pair of hands gripped her wrists. Kathy says
she sensed a struggle going on over possession of her body, that somehow
she had been trapped between two powerful forces. Escape was impossible
and she felt she was going to die. The pressure on her body became
overwhelming and Kathy passed out.

When she came to, she was lying half off the bed with her head almost
touching the floor. Danny had come into the room in answer to her call.
Kathy knew the presences were gone. She couldn't have been out more than
a moment.

"Call Daddy at his office, Danny! Hurry!"

Danny returned in a few minutes. "The man on the telephone says Daddy
just left Syosset. He thinks he's coming back here."

George did not come back to the house until early afternoon. When he
reached Amityville, he drove up Merrick Road toward his street and
stopped off at The Witches'Brew for a beer.

The neighborhood bar was warm and empty. The juke box and television set
were silent, and the only sounds in the place were those of the
bartender washing glasses. When George entered, the man looked up and
recognized him from the other day. "Hey, man! Good to see you again!"

George nodded in return and stood up at the bar. "A Miller's," he
ordered.

George watched while the bartender filled a glass. He was a roly-poly
young guy, somewhere in his late twenties, with a stomach that suggested
he liked to sample the beer he sold. George took a long sip,
half-emptying the tall stein before putting it down on the dark wood
bar. "Tell me something," George belched. "Did you know the DeFeos?"

The young man had resumed his glass-washing. He nodded. "Yeah, I knew
them. Why?"

"I'm living in their house now and-"

"I know," the bartender interrupted. George lifted his eyebrows in
surprise. "The first time you came in here you said you just moved into
112 Ocean. That's the DeFeos'."

George finished off his beer. "They ever come in here?"

The bartender put down a clean glass and wiped his hands on a towel.
"Only Ronnie did. Sometimes he brought in his sister Dawn. A cute kid."
He picked up George's empty glass. "You know, you look a lot like
Ronnie. The beard and all. I think you're older than he is, though."

"Did he ever talk about their house?"

The bartender put a new beer in front of George. "The house?"

"Yeah, you know, like did he ever say there was anything funny going on
there? Stuff like that." George took a sip.

"You think there's something bad about the joint? I mean, now after the
murders?"

"No, no." George raised a hand. "I was just asking whether he ever said
anything before the, er-that night."

The bartender looked around the bar as if to confirm that there was no
one else around. "Ronnie never said anything like that to me,

personally." He leaned closer to George. "But I'll tell you something. I
was there once. They threw a big party and Ronnie's old man hired me to
take care of the bar."

George had finished half of his second beer. "What did you think of the
place?"

The bartender spread his fat arms wide. "Big. A real big joint. I didn't
see too much of it, though; I was down in the basement. A lotta booze
and beer flowed that night. It was their anniversary." He looked around
the bar again. "Did you know you got a secret room down there?"

George pretended ignorance. "No! Where?"

"Uh-hunh," the bartender said. "You take a look behind those closets and
you'll find something that'll really shake you."

George leaned over the bar. "What was it?"

"A room, a little room. I found it that night I was down in the
basement. There's this plywood closet built up beside the stairs. I'm
using it to ice beer in, see? When I bumped a keg against one end of the
closet, it seems the whole wall is loose. You know, like a secret panel,

something out of an old movie."

"What about the room?" George prodded.

The bartender nodded. "Yeah, well, when I bumped the plywood, it came
open, and I could see this dark space behind it. The light bulb wasn't
working, so I lit a match. And sure enough, there's this weird little
room, all painted red."

"You're putting me on," George protested.

The bartender put his right hand over his heart. "God's honest truth,
man, so help me. You'll see."

George finished his second beer. "I'll certainly have to look for that."
He put a dollar on the bar. "That's for the beers." lie put down
another. "That's for yourself."

"Hey, thanks, mail!" The bartender looked up at George. "You want to
know something really flakey about that little room? I used to have
nightmares about it."

"Nightmares? Like what?"

"Oh, sometimes I'd dream that people-I don't know who they were-were
killing dogs and pigs in there and using their blood for some kind of
ceremony."

"Dogs and pigs?"

"Yeah." The bartender waved his hand in disgust. "I guess the place-the
red paint and all-really got to me.

When George got home, he and Kathy both had stories to tell each other.
She described the frightening event in their bedroom, and he related
what the bartender at The Witches' Brew had told him about the red room
in the basement. The Lutzes finally realized that there was something
going on that was beyond their control. "Please call Father Mancuso,"
Kathy begged. "Ask him to come back."

Father Mancuso's superiors had been concerned with his health and had
dropped by to look in on him. Father Mancuso told them that he felt much
better that morning. They also decided to spend some time together to
review the priest's workload. Most of the backlog was quickly cleared up
and put in a superior's briefcase. A secretary would do the typing.
Father Mancuso saw the clerics to the building's entrance and then

walked back into his apartment. The phone was ringing.

He was still wearing the soft white cotton surgical gloves he had found
in a drawer. The priest had explained to the Bishop that he had put them
on his hands to protect them from cold, but his real motive was to hide
the ugly rawness of his blisters. The priest's telephone rang five times
before he picked it up. "Hello? This is Father Mancuso."

The voice on the other end came through loud and clear. "Father. This is
George!"

The priest couldn't believe his ears. It was as if George was standing
right in the room with him. He was so surprised that he blurted,
"George?"

"George Lutz. Kathy's husband!"

"Oh! Hi! How are you?"

George held the receiver away from his ear and looked at Kathy standing
next to him in the kitchen. "What's with him?" he whispered to her. "He
sounds like he doesn't remember me."

Father Mancuso knew who George was, all right, but he was still stunned
to hear from him on an open line without any interference at all. "I'm
sorry, George, I didn't mean to be rude. I just wasn't ready for your
call this way after all the trouble I've had reaching you."

"Yeah," answered George. "I know what you mean." Father Mancuso waited
for George to continue, but there was only silence. "George? You still
there?"

"Yes, Father," said George. "I'm here and Kathy's right beside me." He
looked at his wife. "We want you to come back and bless the house."

Father Mancuso thought of what had befallen him the first time he had
blessed the Lutzes' home. He looked at his white gloved hands.

"Father, can you come right away?"

The priest hesitated. He didn't want to go back there, but he couldn't
tell George that in so many words. "Well, George," he finally answered,
"I don't know if I can right now. I have the flu again, you see, and the
doctor doesn't want me running around in this cold weather-"

"Well," George interrupted. "When can you come?"

Father Mancuso began to look for a way out. "Why do you want me to bless
the house again? You don't do that just at the drop of a hat, you know."
George was desperate. "Look, we owe you a dinner. You come, and Kathy
will cook you the best steak you've ever had. Then you can stay
overnight..."

"Oh, I couldn't do that, George ..."

"Well, we'll make you drunk enough to stay!"

Father Mancuso couldn't believe what he just heard. You just don't say
such things to a priest. "Listen here, young man, you-"

"Father, we're in a lot of trouble. We need your help."

The priest's anger evaporated. "What's the matter?" he said.

"There are things happening around this house we don't understand. We've
seen a lot of ..." The telephone line began to crackle on both ends.
"What'd you say, George. I didn't hear you."

There would be no more conversation between the two men. There was no

longer anything to be heard on the line but static and a loud whirring
sound. Both men knew it was no use and hung up their telephones.

George turned to Kathy and looked around the room. "It's started again.
It's killed the phone."

By the time Father Mancuso put down the receiver, his hands were burning
again. "God forgive me," he said aloud, "but George is going to have to
get help from someone else. There's no way I'm going back to that
house!"

15 January 2 to 3 - Disappointed that they couldn't convince Father
Mancuso to return to their house, George and Kathy discussed other ways
of getting help. Both had agreed that now that they had already moved
in, it would be unseemly to ask the local parish priest in Amityville to
bless the house. Besides, he had been the confessor to the DeFeos, and
George recalled from the newspaper accounts that he was an elderly man
who pooh-poohed the thought of "voices" in the house telling Ronnie what
to do. He wasn't much of a believer in occult phenomena.

At one point, George talked of vandalism. Possibly someone was trying to
frighten them out of the house, using violent acts of destruction to

hurry their departure? Kathy had her own opinions. When she had said
something had touched her, had George thought it was just her
imagination? He didn't. Could he explain the horrible figure burned into
the brick wall of the fireplace? He couldn't. Had they really seen a
pig's tracks in the snow? They had. Would he agree that there was a
powerful force in the house that could hurt the family? He did. What
were they going to do? When they went to bed at night, George told her
he had decided to go to the Amityville Police Department the next day.

During the night of January 2, George again bad the urge to check out
the boathouse and found Harry fast asleep in his doghouse. The next
morning, he drove Harry to the animal hospital in Deer Park that he had
been using and had them check the dog over thoroughly. It bad cost him
$35 to discover that Harry was sound and didn't appear to be drugged or
poisoned. The vet suggested that the animal's lassitude might possibly
have developed from a change in his diet.

On the morning of January 2, Father Mancuso again blessed the Lutzes'
home. He didn't perform the ceremony in Amityville, but at the church
and the Long Island rectory. In the church the priest held a votive
Mass-a mass that does not correspond with one prescribed for the day,
but is said for a special intention, at the choice of the celebrant.

Father Mancuso had removed his gloves. He knelt at the altar and opened
his missal. He began: "I am the Savior of all people, says the Lord.
Whatever the troubles, I will answer their cry and I will always be
their Lord."

The priest crossed himself and read aloud the opening chapter of the
Mass: "God our Father, our strength in adversity, our health in
weakness, our comfort in sorrow, be merciful to your people."

Father Mancuso lifted his eyes to the figure on the cross. "As you have
given us the punishment we deserve, give us also new life and hope as we
rest in your kindness. We ask this through Christ our Lord."

He closed his missal, but kept his eyes on Jesus. "Lord, look kindly on
the Lutzes in their sufferings, and by the death of your Son, endured
for us, turn away from them your anger and the punishment their sins
deserve. We ask this through Christ, our Lord. Amen."

After the votive Mass, Father Mancuso returned to his apartment to find
a stupefying odor of human excrement pervading his rooms!

He gagged but managed to throw open all the windows. The freezing air
rushed in, providing momentary relief, but then the stench overpowered

even the cold wind. Father Mancuso ran to his bathroom to see if somehow
the toilet had backed up. But no, there was nothing amiss-not until you
tried to breathe!

The priest knew there was a cesspool under the front lawn of the rectory
and dry wells behind the parking lot. He enlisted the aid of the
maintenance man and together they found that no animals had been trapped
in the wells and that the cesspool was in good working order. There had
been no apparent leaks in the plumbing.

Father Mancuso feared that the horrible odor might begin to pervade the
entire rectory. Other priests might be driven from their rooms to the
school building across the yard. The Pastor would be extremely upset
over the incident. Finally, Father Mancuso decided to bum incense to
dispel the noxious stench.

Up to that point, Father Mancuso had not attributed the source of the
smell to his own apartment. But after lighting the incense in his rooms
and returning to the school building with the others, the priest
realized that his apartment had been the first struck-evidently while he
had been celebrating the special Mass for the Lutzes. He then made the
terrifying connection-a disembodied voice in 112 Ocean Avenue had told
him to "Get out." Whoever that voice belonged to, it had reached clear

across to the Rectory to give him the same message.

There was another connection Father Mancuso had been trying to make. He
realized it when he stood by the windows in the lobby and looked across
to his apartment in the Rectory, remembering one of the lessons he
learned in demonology-the odor of human excrement was always associated
with the appearance of the Devil!

In the afternoon, Detective Sergeant Lou Zammataro of the Amityville
Police Department went along with George, saw the wrecked garage door
and the animal tracks still visible in the frozen snow, and then went
into the house. He was introduced to Kathy and the children. She
repeated her story of the ghost-like touchings and took the sergeant
into the living room to show him the image burned into the fireplace
wall.

Even after George and Kathy showed him the red room in the basement,
they sensed Zammataro's skepticism. He had listened to George's version
of the evil, use of the hideaway, nodded when George mentioned Ronnie
DeFeo as the builder of the secret room, then asked the Lutzes whether
they had any concrete facts to base their fears on. "I can't work on
what you believe you've seen or heard. Maybe you ought to get a priest
in here," he suggested. "It sounds more like his kind of job than a

cop's."

Sergeant Lou Zammataro left the Lutz house and got into his car. He knew
he hadn't helped the young couple at all. BUt there was really nothing
he could do for them, except maybe have a cruiser stop by once in a
while. There had been no use in frightening them anymore, he, bad told
himself as he drove off. Why make things worse by mentioning that he bad
felt strong vibrations, "a creepy feeling" the moment he once again
walked into 112 Ocean Avenue?

When the sun went down, there still wasn't very much relief from the
stench at the Long Island rectory. The C, heavy smoke released by the
burning incense had gotten into the eyes and lungs of everyone who had
entered Father Mancuso's rooms. His visitors were no longer able to tell
whether they were nauseous from the smoke or from the original smell.

Father Mancuso had left his windows wide open in the hope that the cold
air would eventually drive the odor from his rooms. But that effort
backfired; the inrushing wind had only blocked the smoke and smell from
getting out. The priest had wanted to tell the others that he knew what
had happened and why, but he kept his own counsel, praying for a quick
deliverance from this latest humiliation.

Immediately after Sergeant Zammataro bad left, George noticed the
compressor in the boathouse had stopped. There was no reason for the
machine's stopping-unless it had overloaded the circuits and blown a
fuse. That meant he would have to go down to the basement in the main
house and examine the fuse box.

George knew the box was in the area of the storage closets and took a
fresh box of fuses down with him. In the cellar he quickly discovered
the blown fuse and replaced it. He heard the compressor start up again,
making a loud racket as it began to chum, but waited to see if another
overload would occur. After a few moments, he was satisfied and started
to go back upstairs.

When he was halfway up the cellar steps, George became aware of the
smell. It wasn't fuel oil.

He had his flashlight with him, but the lights in the basement were
still on. From his position on the stairs, George had been able to see
almost the entire cellar. He sniffed and then sensed the foul odor was
coming from the area near the northeast corner-by the plywood storage
closets that shielded the secret room.

George went back down the stairs and warily approached the storage

closets. As he stood before the shelving that hid the small room, the
odor became stronger. Holding his nose, George forced open the paneling
and shone his flashlight around the red painted walls.

The stench of human excrement was heavy in the confined space. It formed
a choking fog. Nauseated, George's stomach began to heave. He had just
time enough to pull the panel back into place and shut out the mist
before he vomited, fouling his clothes and the floor.

Father Mancuso and the Pastor of the Long Island rectory had been
friends for several years, ever since the priest had taken an apartment
in the rectory. Even with Father Mancuso's heavy workload and busy
schedule within the diocese, their friendship had ripened and the two
priests had become close companions. There was a twenty year difference
in their ages, Father Mancuso being forty-two, but there was no
generation gap.

On the night of January 3, all that changed. Depressed with the
unrelenting, disgusting odor that permeated Ms apartment, Father Mancuso
turned on the Pastor and their comradeship was irrevocably destroyed. It
started in the Pastor's office, where Father Mancuso had gone to pick up
some reports that had been typed for him. He was about to return to his
own rooms when the Pastor walked in with three other priests. Father

Mancuso had just finished dinner-such as it was, since he had been
unable to rid himself of the odor that clung to his clothes. He glanced
across the room to the Pastor who was standing beside a desk. "I don't
know why the stink is in my rooms only," he barked. "Why am I the only
one chosen for this high honor?"

The Pastor was stunned. He couldn't believe what he had just heard. Why,
he thought, the man's completely irrational over the incident. "I'm
sorry," the Pastor said gently in reply, "but I really can't give you a
logical explanation."

Father Mancuso waved his hand at the Pastor in dismissal. The other
priests had looks of amazement on their faces. Father Mancuso had never
spoken like this, particularly about his close friend. Now his face
became red with rage. "How come you're so nice to me, eh?"

What had gotten into the man? The Pastor looked at the other priests,
who were avoiding his glance, embarrassed at being included in the
outbreak. Then the Pastor spoke up. "I think this business with the
smell is getting the better of you, my friend. It would be better if we
talked at another time and in another place."

He rose to leave the room. His determined calm deflated Father Mancuso.

He retreated, but continued to glare at the Pastor. There was a look in
his eyes that came from someone or something within the priest's body.
This emotion bad momentarily taken possession of Father Mancuso, just as
something had taken possession of, and befouled, his apartment in the
rectory.

George had finally managed to clean himself up after the disastrous trip
to the basement. He and Kathy were sitting in the kitchen over coffee.
It was after eleven P.M. and both were tired from the tension of the
ever increasing incidents. Only the kitchen seemed relatively safe; and
they were reluctant to go up to bed.

"Listen," George said, "It's getting chilly in here. Let's at least go
into the livingroom where it's warmer." He got up from his chair, but
Kathy remained seated.

"What are we going to do?" she asked. "Things are getting worse. I'm
really scared something can happen to the kids." Kathy looked up at her
husband. "God knows what's going to happen next around here."

"Look," he answered. "Just keep the kids out of the cellar until I set
up a fan down there. Then I'm going to brick up the door to that room so
it never bothers us again." He took Kathy's arm and pulled her up from

the chair. "I also want to talk to Eric at my office. He says his girl
friend's got a lot of experience investigating haunted houses ..."

"Haunted houses?" Kathy interrupted. "Do you think this house is
haunted? By what?" She followed him toward the livingroom, then stopped
in the hallway. "I just had a thought, George. Do you think our TM had
anything to do with all this?"

George shook his head. "Nah. Nothing at all. But what I do know is that
we've got to get help somewhere. It might as well be ..."

As they entered the livingroom, Kathy's scream cut off the rest of
George's words. He looked to where she was pointing. The ceramic lion
that George had carried -up to the sewing room was on the table next to
Kathy's chair, its jaws bared at George and Kathy!

16 January 4 to 5 - George grabbed the lion off the livingroom table and
threw it into a garbage can outside the house. It took him quite a while
to calm Kathy down because he couldn't possibly explain how the
porcelain piece had managed to come back down from the sewing room. She
insisted that something in the house had done it and didn't want to
spend another minute in 112 Ocean Avenue.

George had confided to Kathy that he too felt uneasy about the lion's
sudden reappearance. But he couldn't agree on running away without
taking a chance at fighting back.

"How can you fight what you can't see?" Kathy asked. "This-this thing
can do anything it wants."

"No honey," George said. "There's no way you can convince me a lot of
this isn't just our imagination. I just don't believe in spooks! No way,
no how, no time!" Finally he talked Kathy into going up to bed with a
promise that if he couldn't get help by the next day, they would get out
of the house for a while.

They both were completely drained. Kathy fell asleep out of slicer
exhaustion. George dozed off, waking every once in a while to listen
groggily for any unnatural noises in the house. He says that he has no
idea how long he had lain there before he heard the marching music
downstairs! His head was keeping time to the drumbeats before he
realized he was listening to music. Glancing at Kathy to see if she had
been awakened, he heard her breathe deeply. She was fast asleep.

George ran out of the room into the hall and heard the stomp of marching

feet get louder. There must be at least fifty musicians parading around
on the first floor, he thought. But the moment he hit the bottom step
and turned on the hall light, the sounds ceased.

George froze on the staircase, his eyes and head swiveling frantically
to catch any sign of movement. There was absolutely no one there. It was
as though he had walked into an echo chamber. After the cacophony of
sound, the sudden silence sent chills up his back.

Then George heard heavy breathing and thought someone was right behind
him. He spun about. No one was there, and he then realized he was
listening to Kathy from all the way upstairs.

Fear of her being alone in the bedroom galvanized George. He raced back
up the steps two at a time and into his room, turning on the light.
There, floating two feet above the bed, was Kathy. She was slowly
drifting away from him toward the windows!

"Kathy!" George yelled, jumping up on the bed to grab his wife. She was
as stiff as a board in his hands, but her drifting stopped. George felt
a resistance to his pull, then a sudden release of pressure, and he and
Kathy fell heavily off the bed onto the floor. The fall awakened her.

When she saw where she was, Kathy was incoherent for a moment. "Where am
I?" she cried. "What's happened?"

George started to help her up. She could hardly stand. "It's nothing,"
he reassured her. "You were having a dream and fell out of bed. That's
all."

Kathy was still too dazed to question George any further. She said,
"Oh!" meekly got back into bed, and immediately fell back into a deep
sleep. George turned out the light in the room but did not return to his
wife's side. He sat on a chair beside the windows, watching Kathy and
looking out at the lightening sky of early morning.

Father Mancuso was also watching the new day break -from his mother's
house in Nassau, where he had gone shortly after the altercation with
his Pastor. Not that he was afraid of a continued outburst, but it had
been impossible to sleep in his stench-filled, incense smoked apartment.
Also, be now truly believed that he was the target of the demonic
phenomenon and thought that the odor would go if he left the Rectory for
a while. At first Father Mancuso had misgivings about being in his
mother's home because he didn't want to involve her in his problem. But
then he had begun to feel feverish and decided that if he was to be sick
again, he'd rather be under her care.

He hadn't had much sleep and awakened a few minutes before dawn. He felt
his palms itching and looked at his hands to examine both sides. He
considered talking to his mother, but he didn't want to upset her
further; she was already deeply concerned about his illness.

The skies were laced with long streaks of white clouds. He noted they
were low and moving fast. With the cold spell still holding in the low
teens, that could mean more snow. Father Mancuso turned away from the
window and looked at the clock on the night stand. It was only 7: 00
A.M. I'd like to call George Lutz, he thought, to find out if the Mass
caused any similar reaction at his house. But no, seven might be too
early. Father Mancuso decided to wait a while and got back into bed.

It was nice and warm under the covers. Sleepily he heard his mother
stirring in the kitchen and suddenly he was ten years old, waiting for
her to call him to get up for school. The recent pains, aches, and
humiliations fled from his mind and body. Father Mancuso was sleeping
safely in his old bed in his mother's house.

By ten in the morning, Kathy was still in a deep sleep. George had
become worried about her condition after the past night's terrifying
experience. He couldn't wait any longer. He had to call Father Mancuso

again.

Danny and Chris had told their father that they heard on their radio
that the Amityville schools were closed because of a heating problem.
They were somewhat disappointed, because it would have been their first
day at their new school after the Christmas holidays and a chance to
meet some new friends.

George thought he was lucky not to have to drive the boys to school. It
was clear across town, and he hadn't really wanted to leave Kathy and
Missy alone in the house. He fed the children their breakfast and sent
them up to play in their bedroom. Then he looked in on Kathy.

Her face was pale, drawn, with deep lines around her mouth. He didn't
want to waken her and went back down to the kitchen. When he saw that it
was 11:00 A.M., George decided to call the priest.

When he dialed Father Mancuso's private number, there was no answer.
George called the Rectory itself and was informed that Father Mancuso
was visiting his mother. No, they couldn't give out her number, but
would give Father Mancuso the message that George had called.

George sat in the kitchen the rest of the morning, waiting for the

return call. He thought he had been a fool to mouth off about "not
believing in spooks." Kathy was right-how the hell can you fight
something that can lift you clear off the bed like a stick of wood?
George Lutz, ex-Marine, admitted he was scared.

Kathy came downstairs just as the telephone rang. It was George's
office, calling to ask when he was coming in. The Internal Revenue agent
was due back and they did not know how George wanted to handle the
situation. George squirmed. Finally he told his bookkeeper to call their
accountant and postpone the appointment until the following week. As for
his coming in, he said Kathy didn't feel well and they were waiting for
the doctor. Kathy sat next to George at the kitchen table and looked
strangely at her husband. She mouthed the word "doctor?" to him. George
shook his head at her and ended the call by telling his office he'd get
back to them later.

"Boy!" he said to Kathy, "are they ever getting fed up with me! I'll
just have to go in tomorrow."

Kathy yawned at George and shrugged her shoulders in an effort to ease
the stiffness in her body. "God," she said, "look at the time. Why'd you
let me sleep so long? Have the kids eaten? Are the boys in school?"

George started counting on his fingers. "First," he answered, "you
haven't slept so good in weeks, so I left you alone." He held up two
fingers. "Yes, they ate breakfast." Three fingers: "There was no school
today. I sent them upstairs to play with Missy."

Good, he thought to himself, Kathy hadn't remembered anything about what
happened last night. And I'm not going to tell her. "I've been trying to
get hold of Father Mancuso again," George continued. "They say he's at
his mother's, but he'll call me as soon as they hear from him."

Father Mancuso's mother didn't disturb his needed rest until almost
three in the afternoon. He knew his fever had dropped because he no
longer had a lightheaded feeling. The priest was doubly pleased when he
finally checked in with the Rectory. The priest who answered the phone
said that the incense had driven out the horrible smells and that Father
could return to his rooms. "Father, also George Lutz called you."

Oh yes, fie reminded himself, I meant to call him, but it completely
slipped my mind. Father Mancuso said he'd return by evening. He then
called George.

The phone was picked up on the first ring. "George? This is Father
Mancuso."

"Father, am I glad you called. We must talk to you right away. Can you
please come over here now?"

"But I've already blessed your house again," Father Mancuso answered. "I
said a votive Mass for you at the church the other day. And by the way,
did any ..."

"It's not to bless the house," George interrupted. "It's more than that
now." For the next several minutes George recounted what had happened at
112 Ocean Avenue since he had moved in. He sent Kathy upstairs under the
pretext of getting him her cigarettes, and then told the priest about
her levitating. "That's why we need you, Father," George concluded. "I'm
scared of what's going to happen to Kathy and the kids!"

All through George's recitation, Father Mancuso had feared a
debilitating attack. Now he was ashamed to realize that he'd been
avoiding the inevitable. Come on, man, he thought to himself, you're a
priest. If I don't want to wear the collar and accept its
responsibilities why, by God, I'm not worthy!

Father Mancuso took a deep breath. "All right, George. I'll try and get
there to ..."

George didn't hear what Father Mancuso said next. Suddenly there were
several loud moans on the line and then a crackling that almost
shattered his eardrum. "Father! I can't hear you!" A continued moaning
was the only answer George got.

On the other end, Father Mancuso felt as if he had been physically
slapped in the face. He put down the telephone, put his hand to his
cheek, and began to cry. "I'm afraid to go back there!" He looked at his
sore palms and then buried his face within them. "Oh, God! Help me! Help
me!"

George knew it was useless to wait for Father Mancuso to call back. Even
if he did, they would have been prevented from talking to one another
about the house. But George had one hope. He was sure he had heard the
priest say he'd come, but he didn't know when. He'd just have to sit
there and wait.

Father Mancuso returned to the Rectory after eight in the evening. Now
it was almost ten o'clock, and the priest sat and stared at the
telephone. The smell of excrement had gone from his quarters as he'd
been told, but the acrid sting of incense still hung in the air. That he
could tolerate. What he couldn't stand was his inability to go to the

Lutzes. Even the thought of the children being in danger from the
demonic behavior couldn't overcome his fear of what might await him at
112 Ocean Avenue.

Finally Father Mancuso decided he would call the Chancellor's office in
the diocese. He picked up the telephone, but thought he would go see
them in the morning instead. He then prepared to go to bed. He had had
enough sleep that morning at his mother's, but he was exhausted again.
Before putting on his pajamas, he went into the bathroom to remove the
white gloves. The Burow's Solution had helped soothe the affliction and
he wanted to soak his palms once more that night.

When he peeled off the gloves, he was stunned. He turned his hands over
and examined the palms. There were no more ugly splotches or open sores.
There was no sign of bleeding. The blisters were gone!

Kathy had never really come to herself all that day and night. She sat
by the fireplace in the livingroom. George fed the children and
eventually sent them off to bed. The boys didn't complain that it was
too early because they knew they'd have to get up for school. Evidently
the heating problem bad been solved, because the local Amityville radio
station had announced that the schools would be open the next morning.

George had even helped Missy take her bath. He read his daughter a story
before she let him turn off her light. The last words Missy said before
he closed her door were: "Good night Daddy. Good night Jodie."

When be saw it was almost eleven, George realized that Father Mancuso
wasn't coming that night. Kathy bad been drooping in her chair for the
past hour, her eyes closing with the warmth of the fire. Finally, she
announced to George she was going up to bed.

George looked at his wife. Not once had she mentioned getting away from
the house. It was as though none of the frightening incidents bad ever
occurred and it was just natural for her to want to go to sleep. They
went up to their bedroom together.

Kathy mumbled that she was too sleepy to take a bath and would do it in
the morning. She was asleep as soon as her head hit the pillow. George
sat on the edge of the bed for a while watching Kathy breathe deeply.
Then he went out to check on Harry. The dog was asleep again, his food
untouched.

George was about to reach down and shake the animal when he heard the
marching band strike up in his house. He ran back in through the
kitchen. The drums and horns were blasting away in the livingroom.

George 174 heard the stomping of many feet as he tore through the
hallway.

The lights were still on, but he could see there was no one in the room.
The very instant he could see into the livingroom, the music had cut
off. George looked about wildly. "You sonsofbitches, where are you?" he
screamed.

George took in great gulps of air. Then he realized there was something
strange about the livingroom. Every piece of furniture had been moved.
The rug had been rolled back. Chairs, couch, and tables had been pushed
against the walls as if to make room for a lot of dancers-or a marching
band!

17 January 6 - "Your story is very interesting, Frank, but if I didn't
know your background as a pro, I'd honestly think you were a little nuts
to believe in it." Chancellor Ryan got up from behind his desk and went
to the new coffee machine across the room. Father Mancuso shook his head
at Father Ryan's offer. Ryan then poured one black cup for Father
Nuncio-the other Chancellor-and one for himself.

The Chancellor sat back down at his desk, sipped some of the coffee,

then looked at his notes. "In your capacity as a psychotherapist, how
many times have people come to you with stories like this? Hundreds,
I'll bet."

Chancellor Ryan was an extremely tall man, even while sitting. He was
six feet five, with a shock of white hair crowning a ruddy Irish face.
The priest was well known in the diocese for his open manner in speaking
to the other clerics, be they young parish priests or the Bishop
himself. Chancellor Nuncio, on the other hand, was the exact opposite;
short, stumpy, black-haired, young at forty two, while Father Ryan was
well in his sixties, and with a seriousness to his approach that
perfectly complemented the other Chancellor's softer touch.

The two had listened to Father Mancuso's recounting of the episodes that
George Lutz bad said happened at 112 Ocean Avenue, and to his own
humiliating experiences, including the latest one that bad just occurred
at the Rectory. They were impressed with Father Mancuso's fears that the
phenomena had a demonic taint to them.

Chancellor Ryan looked up from the pad on his desk and spoke to the
troubled priest. "Before we offer any suggestions on how you should
handle this as a participant and as a priest, Frank, I think you should
know the ground rules." Father Ryan nodded to Father Nuncio.

The other priest put down his coffee. "You seem to think that there's
something demonic going on in the Lutzes' house, that the place is
possessed somehow. Well, let me reassure you that first of all, places
and things are never possessed. Only people." Father Nuncio stopped,
reached into his jacket and withdrew several short cigars. He offered
them around, but the two priests declined. He lit up, puffing and
talking at the same time. "The traditional viewpoint of the Church sees
the devil in a number of ways: He tries through temptation, by which he
is seen to prod men toward sin in the psychological battles with which
I'm sure you're familiar."

"Oh, yes," Father Mancuso nodded. "As Father Ryan mentioned, I've seen
and heard many who've come to me as a psychotherapist and as a parish
priest." Chancellor Ryan picked up the thread. "Then there are the
so-called extraordinary activities of the devil in the world. Usually
these are material things around a person that are affected; that might
be what you're up against. We call it infestation. It breaks down into
different categories which we'll explain in a minute."

"Obsession," Father Nuncio put in, "is the next step, in which the
person is affected either internally or externally. And finally there is
possession, by which the person temporarily loses control of his

faculties and the devil acts in and through him."

When Father Mancuso had come to the Chancellors' office to keep his
appointment, he had been somewhat embarrassed as to how to approach his
problem. But he relaxed as the two priests had shown keen interest. Now
with their spelling out the guidelines he must take in this kind of
situation, Father Mancuso raised his hopes for deliverance from this
evil.

"In investigating cases of possible diabolical interference," Chancellor
Ryan went on, "we must consider the following: One, fraud and deception.
Two, natural scientific causes. Three, parapsychological causes. Four,
diabolical influences. And five, miracles. In this case, fraud and
trickery don't seem plausible. George and Kathleen Lutz seem to be
normal, balanced individuals. We think you are too. The possibilities
therefore are reduced to psychological, parapsychological, or diabolical
influences."

"We'll exclude the miraculous," Father Nuncio broke in, "because the
Divine would not involve itself in the trivial and foolish."

"True," said Father Ryan. "Therefore the explanation would seem to
include hallucination and autosuggestion-you know, like the invisible

touches Kathy experienced-and when George thought he heard that marching
band. But let's take the parapsychological line. Parapsychologists like
Dr. Rhine, who works at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina,
define four main operations in the science. The first three come under
the general heading of ESP-extrasensory perception. They are mental
telepathy, clairvoyance, and precognition, which could explain George's
visions and 'picking up' information that seems to coincide with known
facts about the DeFeos. The fourth parapsychological area is
psychokinesis, where objects move by themselves. That would be the case
with the Lutzes' ceramic lion-if it did move," he added.

Father Nuncio got up to refill his cup. "All of what we've said, Frank,
is part of the suggestion we have for the Lutzes. Have them contact some
investigative organization like Dr. Rhine's to come in and look at the
house. They'll do extensive testing and I'm sure they can come to some
conclusion short of diabolical influence."

"But what about me?" asked Father Mancuso. "What do I do?"

Chancellor Ryan cleared his throat and looked kindly at the priest. "You
are not to return to that house. You can call the Lutzes and tell them
what we suggested. But under no circumstances are you ever to go there
again."

"I thought you said I shouldn't consider a belief in such matters as
this," Father Mancuso protested.

"Yes, I did," said Father Ryan. "But you've got yourself so worked up
over this affair that at the moment the best thing you can do is
dissociate yourself from the Lutzes and 112 Ocean Avenue."

After breakfast, Kathy dropped the boys off at their new school, then
drove over to her mother's with Missy. George was alone in the house. He
had gone down to the cellar to clear the odor with two fans. But when he
came down the stairs, there was no trace of any of the terrible stench
that had made him vomit the day before.

He sniffed but could find nothing, even when he went directly to the
secret red room. George pulled the plywood paneling back open and
flashed his light about the red walls. "Damn!" he said. "It couldn't
have disappeared just like that. There's got to be an air hole down here
somewhere."

George was searching for that possible air vent when Father Mancuso
dialed his number. After the meeting, the priest had driven back to his
own apartment in the rectory intending to call George with the

Chancellors' recommendations. He heard the telephone ring ten times
before he finally hung up. Father Mancuso thought he'd try again later
when the Lutzes came home.

George was home all right, but he never heard the telephone ring. The
door to the basement was open, and usually the ringing telephone could
be heard anywhere in the house.

George had no success in finding any opening where the stench could have
escaped, but under the area where the front steps to the house had been
constructed, he did discover something interesting. When the contractor
had laid the foundation for the house at 112 Ocean Avenue, it seemed he
had covered over a circular opening with a concrete lid. By squirreling
around the dirt piled up against this protuberance, George accidentally
loosened some of the old gravel around the base and heard it fall into
water far below. He flashed his light and saw the beam hit against a
wet, black shaft. "A well!" he said aloud. "That doesn't show up in the
blueprints. It must have been left from the old house that was here
before."

He returned to the first floor and looked at the kitchen clock. Strange,
he thought, it's almost noon and I still haven't heard from Father. I'd
better try him myself.

George called the Rectory. The priest picked up on the first ring.
George was surprised when Father Mancuso told him he had just called and
that there was no answer at the house. Then George asked Father Mancuso
when he was coming, and they got down to Father Mancuso's report.

He said he'd been to see the Chancellors of his diocese and repeated
their recommendation that George find an organization to conduct a
scientific investigation of the house. Father Mancuso gave George the
address of a Psychical Research Institute in North Carolina and
suggested he get in touch with them immediately. George agreed, but
pressed the priest to come to the house.

Not until many months after be and his family had fled 112 Ocean Avenue
would George Lutz learn what Father Mancuso had suffered after he
originally blessed their house or of his subsequent humiliations and
afflictions. Therefore, when Father Mancuso again refused to come to the
house, George became confused. He said be really needed him, not some
ghost-chasing outfit from somewhere down South. And who, he wanted to
know, was supposed to pay for all of this? But after promising to call
the parapsychologists and to let Father Mancuso know the results of the
investigation, George hung up.

He was still annoyed when he called Kathy at her mother's. George told
her what the priest had said, but snorted that he wasn't going to bother
with anything like that. But Kathy felt they should pursue the
Chancellors' recommendations telling George that he should listen to
what the Church suggested.

Finally George agreed, saying he would drive to his office on his Harley
chopper and type out the letter to the people at Duke. He didn't tell
her he also wanted to talk to Eric, the young fellow at his office who
said his girl friend was a medium.

After talking to George, Father Mancuso felt a tremendous pressure lift
from his shoulders. Just the fact that he had been able to share his
burden with others cleared his head completely for the first time in
weeks; the responsibility he had been bearing alone had been taken away
by his superiors.

The priest turned to preparing his work schedule for the following week.
It took him several hours-until dinner time-to finally nail down the
program be wanted for his counseling and for his patients. He ordered
Chinese food from a nearby restaurant in the vicinity and wolfed down
the meal while reading some clients' case histories.

George rode to his office and mailed the letter to the
parapsychologists, using the Chancellors' names as his reference. fie
didn't really expect an immediate response to his request for an
investigator, so he only put a regular stamp on the envelope instead of
an airmail one. Then he telephoned Eric's girl friend, Francine.

She was terribly interested in what he had to say. Sure that she could
contact whatever-or whoever-was making his and Kathy's lives miserable;
she promised to come to the Lutzes' house with her boyfriend in a day or
so.

Then the young woman said something that really made George's ears perk
up. Out of the clear blue, she mentioned that George should look around
his property for an old, abandoned, covered-up well. He didn't admit
that he had already found such a place, but asked instead why she wanted
him to do the searching.

Her answer shocked him: "I think," she said, "that your spirits may be
coming from a well. You can cap it off, you know, but I bet if you do
find a well under your house, there's a direct passage to it. And
somehow, even if it's a tiny crack, that's all it takes. With that, 'it'
can climb out when it wants to."

After thanking the girl and hanging up, George made a phone call to the
Psychical Research Institute in Durham, North Carolina, and told them of
the letter he had just sent. They agreed to send a field investigator as
soon as possible. In turn, George agreed to pay the field man's
expenses.

Father Mancuso, too, was on the telephone once more that night. The call
came after eleven and was, surprisingly, from the priest who had helped
him when his car fell apart on the Van Wyck Expressway.

Both clerics recalled the harrowing events of that evening and Father
Mancuso asked the other priest whether he had encountered any further
trouble after his windshield wipers had gone berserk. "No," his friend
said. "That is, not until a few minutes ago." Father Mancuso's heart
began to beat loudly against his chest.

"Frank," the other priest continued, "I just got a peculiar phone call.
I don't know who it was, but he said, 'Tell the priest not to come
back.'"

"What was he talking about?" Father Mancuso asked.

"I asked that. I said, 'Who are you talking about? The voice only

answered, 'The priest you helped.'"

"The priest you helped?"

"Yeah. I thought about that after he hung up and I couldn't remember
anybody but you. Do you think he really means you, Frank?"

"He never told you who it was?"

"No. He just said, 'The priest'll know who it is.'

"What did he actually say?"

"He said, 'Tell the priest not to come back or he'll die!"

18 January 6 to 7 - Earlier that day, Kathy had returned from her
mother's house in time to pick up Danny and Chris at their new school in
Amityville. The boys were eager to tell about their teachers,
schoolmates, and playground facilities. The yard had been cleared of
snow and the children had been able to enjoy some activities outside.
Missy, jealous at having to stay home, kept pumping her brothers about
what the girls at the elementary school were like.

The whole family ate together at six-thirty. George told Kathy what he
had done about Father Mancuso's suggestion, and that he had also spoken
to the girl who could contact spirits. Kathy was glad that he had called
the parapsychology people instead of just waiting for an answer to his
letter. But she wasn't too happy about a stranger coming into her house
to talk to ghosts-particularly a young girl like Francine. After they
had finished dinner, Kathy told George she really wanted to return to
her mother's until she felt the house was safe to live in.

George reminded her that it was ten degrees above zero outside and snow
was forecast by morning. Even though East Babylon wasn't too far up the
road, he didn't think she could make it from her mother's house back to
Amityville in time to get the boys to school in the morning.

Danny and Chris chimed in that they wanted to stay home-they had some
homework to do, and besides, their grandmother wouldn't let them watch
television after eight o'clock. Kathy finally gave in to their
arguments, but felt uneasy about staying in the house another night. She
told George she didn't think she could sleep a wink.

Harry had been in the kitchen with them while they were eating, and
Kathy had given the dog all the scraps of meat left over from dinner.

Before they went to bed, George thought that Harry might be better off
staying inside that night. It was bitter cold out and would only get
worse if the snow fell. Harry hadn't been served his usual dry food, and
George thought the dog might be more alert after having some red meat.

While the boys did their homework, Missy took Harry up to her room to
play. But Harry didn't want to stay there. He was nervous and sniveling,
Kathy noted, particularly after Missy had introduced Harry to her unseen
friend, Jodie. Finally the little girl had to close her door to keep
Harry from running out. He crawled under her bed and remained there.
Finally Chris came down for him. Harry scampered out of Missy's room
and, with his tail between his legs, ran up the stairs to the third
floor, where he remained the rest of the night.

At twelve, when George and Kathy finally went up to bed, she went out
like a light for the third night in a row, quickly falling into a deep
sleep, her breathing heavy. But George, lying on his side with his back
to Kathy, was wide awake, his ears alert for any signs of the marching
band.

When he first noticed the snowflakes falling outside the windows, he saw
it was one o'clock on his wrist watch. The wind was rising, whipping the
flakes about. Then he thought he heard a boat moving on the Amityville

River. But the bedroom windows didn't face the water, and George didn't
feel like getting up from his warm bed to look out from Missy's or the
sewing room windows. Besides the river was frozen, so George ascribed
the sound to the vagaries of the wind.

At 2 A.m. he began to yawn. His eyes were getting heavy and his body was
getting stiff from lying in one position. A short while ago he had
looked over his shoulder at Kathy. She was still flat on her back, her
mouth open.

Suddenly George had the urge to get up and go to The Witches'Brew for a
beer. He knew there were cans of brew in the refrigerator, but he kept
thinking that they wouldn't slake his thirst, It had to be The Witches'
Brew, and it didn't matter that it was two in the morning, or that it
was freezing out. He turned to wake Kathy and tell her he was going out
for a while.

In the darkness of the room, George could see Kathy wasn't in bed. He
could see that she was levitating again, almost a foot above him,
drifting away from him!

Instinctively George reached out, grabbed her hair, and yanked. Kathy
floated back to him and then fell back onto the bed. She awoke.

George turned on the night stand light next to him and gasped. He was
looking at a ninety-year-old woman -the hair wild, a shocking white, the
face a mass of wrinkles and ugly lines, and saliva dripping from the
toothless mouth.

George was so revolted he wanted to flee from the room. Kathy's eyes,
set deep in the wrinkles, were looking at him questioningly. George
shuddered. It's Kathy, he thought, this is my wife! What the hell am I
doing?

Kathy sensed the fright in her husband's face. My God, what does he see?
She leaped from the bed and ran into the bathroom, flicking on the light
above the mirror. Staring at her own face, she screamed.

The ancient crone George had seen was gone, her hair was upset, but it
was blonde again. Her lips were not drooling any longer, nor was she
wrinkled. But deep, ugly lines ran up and down her cheeks.

George, following Kathy into the bathroom, peered over her shoulder at
the image. He too saw that the ninety-year-old visage had faded, but the
long, black slashes still cut deeply down Kathy's face. "What's
happening to my face?" Kathy yelled.

She turned to George, and he put his fingers up to Kathy's mouth. Her
lips were dry and burning hot. Then he ran his fingertips gently across
the deep ridges. There were three on each cheek, extending from just
below her eyes down to just under the jawline. "I don't know, baby," he
whispered.

George took a towel from the rack next to the sink and tried to wipe the
lines away. Kathy spun about and looked into the mirror. Her scared face
stared back at her. Running her own fingers down her face, she began to
cry.

Kathy's helplessness stirred George deeply, and he put his hands on her
shoulders. "I'm going to call Father Mancuso right now," he said.

Kathy shook her head. "No, we mustn't involve him in this." She looked
at George's face reflected in the mirror. "Something tells me he could
get hurt. We'd better go and check on the kids," she said calmly.

The children were all right, but George and Kathy were unable to go back
to sleep that night. They stayed in their bedroom, with the lights out,
watching the snow fall. Every once in a while Kathy would hold her bands
to her face, checking to feel if the ridges were still there. Finally

the cold dawn broke. The snow had stopped, and there was just enough
light for George to make out Kathy when she touched him on the shoulder.

"George," she said, "look at my face."

He turned from his position he had taken in a chair near the window and
looked at his wife. In the dawn's weak light, George could see that the
lines were gone. He put his fingers up to her face and touched her skin.
It was soft again, with absolutely no trace of the disfiguring scars!

"They're gone, baby," he smiled gently. "They are all gone."

In spite of what Kathy bad said during the night, George called Father
Mancuso in the morning and caught the priest just before he went to
early Mass.

George told him that he had spoken to North Carolina, where a Jerry
Solfvin had promised to have an investigator come to the house
immediately. Then he brought up the incident of the night before. Father
Mancuso was aghast about the second levitation and the alterations of
Kathy's face. "George," he said urgently, "I'm worried about what could
happen next. Why don't you just get out of that house for a while?"

George assured the priest he had been thinking of doing just that, but
first he wanted to see what Francine the medium had to say. Maybe she
could help as she had claimed.

"A medium?" Father Mancuso asked. "What are you talking about, George?
That's not a scientific investigation."

"But she said she can talk to spirits," George protested. "In fact,
Father, do you know what she said yesterday? She told me there's a well
hidden under my house. She's right! I found one under the stoop and
she's never even been here!"

Father Mancuso became angry. "Listen!" he shouted over the phone.
"You're involved in something dangerous! I don't know what is going on
in your house, but you'd better get out!"

"You mean, just leave everything?"

"Yes, just go for a while," the priest persisted. "I'll talk to the
Chancellors again and see if they can send someone, maybe a priest."

George was silent. He had been trying to get Father Mancuso to his house
and been refused time and again. The priest's superiors had done nothing

but suggest he contact some organization. Finally he had someone who
sounded as if she could actually help him and Kathy. Why should he just
leave everything and walk out?

"I'll tell Kathy, Father," George finally said. "Thanks." He was about
to hang up.

"George, there's just one more thing," said Father Mancuso. "I seem to
recall that you and Kathy were into Transcendental Meditation at one
time."

"Yes, that's right."

"Do you still practice that?" the priest asked.

"No-yes. Well, we haven't really kept it up since we've moved here,"
George answered. "Why?"

"I was just curious, George, that's all," Father Mancuso replied. "I'm
glad you're not doing it now. It might have been making you
susceptible."

Right after talking with George, Father Mancuso called the Chancery in

Rockville Centre. Unfortunately, Chancellors Ryan and Nuncio were
unavailable and their secretary could only promise to have them call the
following day. The priest was extremely agitated and prayed that things
would not continue to deteriorate until the Church could bring its
forces to bear against the evil that gripped 112 Ocean Avenue.

In his compassion for the Lutzes' plight, Father Mancuso forgot about
his own dilemma. But in a few minutes, he was violently reminded that he
too was subject to the unrelenting influence. He began to shiver and
shake. His stomach heaved and his throat tightened. The priest sneezed,
and his eyes watered; he sneezed again and saw blood on the tissue.
Chancellor Ryan's warning, "Don't involve yourself any more!" flashed
across his mind. But it was too late. Father Mancuso had all the signs
of another attack of the flu!

Later that evening Eric, the young engineer who worked at George's
company, arrived at the Lutzes' home with his girl friend Francine.
George immediately hustled the young couple out of the bitter cold and
into the livingroom to warm themselves in front of the big fire.

They brought an infectious cheerfulness that had been missing at 112
Ocean Avenue. George and Kathy responded and soon the four were chatting
away like old friends. But under George's exterior warmth, there was an

urgency. He wanted Francine to look over the house.

As he was trying to turn the conversation around to her experience with
spirits, Francine beat him to it. Suddenly she got up from her seat on
the couch and motioned to George. "Put your hand gently over here," she
said. George bent over and waved his hand where she had pointed. "Do you
feel the cold air?" Francine asked.

"Slightly," George answered.

"She's been sitting here. Now she's left. Now follow the couch. Feel it
over here?"

George put his hand near a pillow. "Oh, yeah, it feels warm."

Francine beckoned George and Kathy to follow her. The three entered the
dining room while Eric remained in the livingroom by the fireplace.
Francine stood next to the big table. "There's an unusual odor here,"
she said. "I can't quite place it, but it's here. Whew! Do you smell
that?"

George sniffed. "Yeah, right here. It's a smell of perspiration."

The girl headed for the kitchen, but hesitated before going into the
breakfast nook. "There's an old man and an old lady. They are lost
spirits. Do you smell the perfume?"

Kathy's eyes widened. Quickly she looked at George, who shrugged.

"Evidently these people must have had the house at one time," Francine
continued, "but they died. Only I don't think they died in the house."
She turned to George and said, "I want to go to the basement now, okay?"

When George had first spoken to Francine on the telephone, he told her
that mysterious things were happening in his house-but without ever
really spelling out what the phenomena were, nor what had actually taken
place with Kathy and himself. He hadn't discussed the touchings in the
kitchen nor the smell of perfume Kathy had experienced. In any case,
Francine had said she would rather draw her own conclusions after
visiting the house and "talking to the spirits who live there."

Now Francine descended the stairs to the cellar. "The house is built on
a burial ground or something like that," she said. She pointed to a
large area of the basement where the storage closets were built. "Is
that new?" she asked George.

"I don't think so," he answered. "As far as I know, it was all built at
the same time."

Francine stopped in front of the closets. "There are people buried right
here. Something is over them. There is an unusual odor. This should not
be stuffy at all like this." She was pointing directly at the plywood
paneling that hid the secret room. "Notice the chill?" Her hands were
moving now, touching the wood. "Somebody was murdered, or he could even
be buried under here. But this seems like a new part, like a new part
has been added on, and over this grave."

Kathy wanted to run from the basement. Her husband noticed her
discomfort and reached for her hand. Francine solved their dilemma. "I
don't like this spot at all. It's better that we go upstairs now."
Without waiting for a response, she turned and headed for the basement
staircase.

As they went up to the second floor, Francine's boyfriend Eric joined
them. She stood in the hallway, holding on to the banister. "I have to
say that when I came up here, there was a whirling sensation. I felt a
tightness on the right half of my chest."

"A pain?" Kathy asked.

Francine nodded. "Very slight, very quick. Right as you turn the comer.
It disappeared quickly." She stepped to the closed door of the sewing
room. "You've been having problems in here."

George and Kathy both nodded. He opened the door, half expecting to find
the flies in the room. But there were none, and he and Francine walked
inside. Kathy and Eric hung back in the doorway.

Suddenly Francine appeared to go into a trance. Out of her mouth came a
different voice, heavier, more masculine: "I would like to make one
suggestion to you. Most people find out who their spirits are and they
find they like them. They don't want them to get lost or to go away. But
in this case, I feel this house should be cleared or exorcised."

The voice coming from Francine began to sound familiar to George. He
couldn't quite place it, but he was sure he had heard it before.

"Somebody's little girl and boys ... I see bloodstains. Somebody hurt
themselves badly here. Somebody tried to kill themselves or something
..."

Francine came out of her trance. "I would like to go now," she announced

to George and Kathy. "It's not a good time to try to talk to the
spirits. I have a feeling I should go. I was born with a Venetian Veil,
you know."

George didn't know what she meant, but she promised George to return in
a day or so-"When the vibrations are better," she explained. The couple
departed almost immediately.

Back in the livingroom, George and Kathy were silent for a long time.
Finally Kathy asked, "What do you think?"

"I don't know," George answered. "I just don't know. She was hitting
things right on the head." He stood up to put out the fire. "I have to
think about it for a while."

Kathy went upstairs to check on the children. Again Harry was staying
with the boys since it was too cold out for even a rugged dog. George
made his usual check of all the doors and locks, then turned out the
lights on the first floor. He went up the steps to his bedroom, then
stopped before he reached the second floor landing. George saw that the
banister above him was wrenched from its moorings, torn almost
completely off the floor foundation. At that very instant, he recalled
whose voice had been speaking to him through Francine. It was Father

Mancuso!

19 January 8 -On Thursday, Jimmy and his new bride Carey returned from
their honeymoon in Bermuda. They called Kathy from Mrs. Conners', and
Jimmy told his sister he would drop over later in the day. One of his
first questions was whether she and George had found his $1,500. He was
very disappointed when Kathy told him there had been no trace of the
envelope.

It had taken George all morning to fit the second floor banister's
broken anchor posts back in their sockets. When the boys came down for
breakfast, both wanted to help, but George shooed them out of the way,
telling them they had to go shopping for new shoes with their mother.

No one-Danny, Chris, Missy, or Kathy-had heard the banister being
wrenched off its posts during the night. What had caused this latest
damage in the house remained a mystery. George and Kathy had their own
ideas, but did not voice them in front of the children.

Finally Kathy gathered herself together and herded her brood out to the
van to go shopping. George took the opportunity to call Eric. He reached
him at home and asked the young man if Francine had said anything after

leaving their home. George was troubled to hear that the girl had been
very upset with what she felt in the house. She had told Eric she didn't
ever want to go back there; the presence was much too strong. She feared
if she tried to talk to whatever was at the Lutzes', she would be in
danger of a physical attack.

"Eric," George asked, "what's the Venetian Veil she mentioned just
before you left?"

"From what Francine's told me," Eric answered, "that's a caul some
babies are born with-a kind of skin covering, like a thin veil, over the
face. It can be removed, but Francine says that that person is somehow
blessed with a highly developed degree of clairvoyance."

George hung up and sat in the kitchen for over an hour, trying to think
of where or how he could get help before it was too late.

Then the telephone rang. It was George Kekoris, a field investigator for
the Psychical Research Institute in North Carolina, who said he had been
told to contact George and arrange to set up some scientific tests at
the Lutz home. Kekoris also said he couldn't make it that day, since he
was calling from Buffalo, but would try to get there the next morning.

After speaking to Kekoris, George felt as if he had received a
last-minute reprieve. Then, to pass the time until Kathy returned, he
busied himself by taking down the Christmas decorations from the tree
standing in the living room. Tenderly he placed the delicate ornaments
on spread newspapers for Kathy to repack in cardboard boxes, taking
special care of his great-grandmother's beautiful gold and silver piece.

All that Thursday morning and afternoon, Father Mancuso nursed his
recurrent case of flu. He had resigned himself to this newest affliction
as another show of power and displeasure by the evil force he had
alienated at 112 Ocean Avenue.

This time there had been no solicitous call by the Pastor, even though
Father Mancuso was sure the cleric had been informed of his new illness.
He remained in his own apartment, resting in bed, using the medication
he had been given on the doctor's previous visits. His fever ranged as
high as 104 degrees, his stomach hurt continuously, and as the day wore
on, he alternated between chills and sweating. Fortunately no marks had
erupted on his palms-a sign that Father Mancuso interpreted to mean that
he was receiving a lesser degree of punishment for involving himself
again with the Lutzes.

Father Mancuso hadn't even attempted to reach the Chancellors' office

again. The priest felt that the aches and pains would eventually lessen
if he divorced himself from thinking about the Lutz situation, and so he
waited for Father Ryan or Father Nuncio to get in touch with him. At one
point during the afternoon, in fact, the priest hoped that the
Chancellors would ignore his request for another audience. He passed the
time by reading from his breviary.

By four o'clock, Kathy had returned from shopping. Since the Lutzes
still had Jimmy's car, there was no way for the honeymooners to travel
unless they were picked up. Kathy volunteered to go after her brother
and his new wife.

George vetoed her suggestion-the icy roads to her mother's in East
Babylon were still in a hazardous condition, and Jimmy's car had a stick
shift-a gear system Kathy had never really mastered. George drove
instead and was back in Amityville within the hour.

Kathy was delighted to see Jimmy and Carey again and spent the next
hours eagerly listening to their account of every single moment they had
spent in Bermuda. The newlyweds also had a bundle of Polaroid snapshots
to go through with a detailed explanation behind each one. Jimmy didn't
have a dime left, he said, but they had memories that would last a
lifetime. Naturally they had brought some presents for the children, and

that kept Danny, Chris, and Missy out of the adults' way for most of the
evening.

Rather than spoil the pleasant visit by recalling their own weird
experiences since the wedding, George and Kathy simply shared the
excitement of the other two. Eventually Kathy and her new sister-in-law
went upstairs to change the linen on Missy's bed. Jimmy and Carey would
be staying overnight in Missy's room, while the little girl slept on an
old couch in the dressing room down the hall.

Jimmy explained to George his plans for moving out of his mother's
house. He wanted to rent an apartment situated exactly between his
mother's house and his new in-laws, who also lived in East Babylon; this
way, both families would be placated for a while Everyone retired fairly
early. Before turning in, George and Jimmy checked the house inside and
out. George showed Jimmy the damaged garage door, but didn't offer any
explanation beyond the theory that it was caused by a freak windstorm.
Jimmy, who had been victimized of his money by an unknown source, was
suspicious of something else, but he too kept silent and followed George
as he checked the boathouse.

Back inside, they continued their tour of doors and windows, until both
were satisfied with the security of 112 Ocean Avenue. It was eleven

o'clock when the couples said goodnight to one another.

George knows that it happened at 3:15 A.m. because he had been lying
awake a few minutes and had just checked his wristwatch. It was then
that Carey woke up screaming.

"Oh, God, not her too!" he muttered to himself. George leaped out of
bed, ran to Missy's room, and snapped on the light. The young couple
were huddled together in bed, Jimmy cradling his sobbing wife.

"What's the matter?" George asked. "What's happened?"

Carey pointed to the foot of Missy's bed. "S-s-something was sitting
there! It touched m-m-my foot!"

George approached the spot Carey had indicated and felt the bed with his
hand. It was warm as though someone had been sitting there.

"I woke up," Carey continued, "and I could see a little boy. He looked
so sick! He was trying to tell me to help him!" She began to cry
hysterically.

Jimmy shook his wife gently. "Come on, Carey," he said soothingly. "You

were probably having a dream, and-"

"No, Jimmy!" Carey protested. "It wasn't a dream! I saw him! He spoke to
me!"

"What did he say, Carey?" George asked.

Carey's shoulder's were still shaking, but gradually she looked up from
her husband's cradling arms. George heard a noise behind him and a touch
on his shoulder. He jumped, then looked around. It was Kathy. Her eyes
were misty, as though she too had been crying. "Kathy!" Carey cried.
"What did the little boy say?" Kathy prompted her.

"He asked me where Missy and Jodie were!"

At the mention of Missy's name, Kathy bolted from the bedroom and ran to
the other side of the hallway. In the dressing room the little girl was
fast asleep, with one foot sticking out in the air. Kathy lifted Missy's
blanket and bent her leg back under the covers, then leaned down and
kissed her child on the head. George came into the room. "Is Missy all
right?"

Kathy nodded.

In about fifteen minutes Carey had quieted down enough to fall asleep
again. Jimmy was still nervous, but soon he too drifted off. George and
Kathy had shut the door on the couple and returned to their own bedroom.
Immediately she went into the closet and took out the crucifix that hung
inside. "George," she said, "let's bless the house ourselves."

They began on the third floor, in the children's playroom. In the eerie
predawn silence of the cold room, George held the crucifix in front of
him while Kathy intoned the Lord's Prayer. They did not go into Danny
and Chris' room; Kathy said they could wait until the next day to bless
that room and the ones in which Missy and Jimmy and Carey were sleeping.
They moved on to their own bedroom, and then to the sewing room on the
second floor. Warning his wife to be careful of the newly repaired
banister, George led the way down to the first floor, still brandishing
the silver crucifix as he supposed a priest would during a holy
procession.

When they completed their blessing of the kitchen and the dining room,
it was just starting to get light outside. Even without turning on the
lights, they could see the livingroom dimly visible before them. George
marched around the furniture and Kathy started to recite: "Our Father
who art in Heaven; hallowed be thy-"

She was interrupted by a loud humming. Kathy stopped and looked about
her. George halted in midstride and looked up at the ceiling. The hum
swelled into a jumble of voices that seemed to engulf them completely.
Finally Kathy clasped her hands to her ears to drown out the cacophony
of noise, but George clearly heard the chorus thunder: "Will you stop!"

20 January 8 to 9 - Father Mancuso felt too weak to celebrate Mass at
the church, so he remained in his quarters, praying at his ~prie-dieu.
The phone rang. It was Father Nuncio calling from the Chancellor's
office to say that he and Father Ryan could see Father Mancuso.

The priest pleaded that his illness prevented him from coming to the
Chancery, but asked whether he could discuss the Lutz situation over the
telephone. Father Nuncio agreed and listened as Father Mancuso related
the latest developments at 112 Ocean Avenue. Without hesitation, the
Chancellor agreed with Father Mancuso's suggestion that the Lutzes move
out of their house for a while. Father Mancuso informed Father Nuncio of
his decision not to return to the house in Amityville and said that he
would merely relay the message over the telephone. In Amityville, Kathy
and George were still shaken from the previous night's performance by
the unseen chorus. She had remained awake, sitting in their bedroom.

George returned the crucifix to the closet wall and then he and Kathy
held hands, each whispering reassuring words to soothe the other's
fright. At eight o'clock, Kathy had risen from the edge of the bed and
awakened the children. Jimmy and Carey came out of Missy's bedroom at
eighty-thirty, dressed and ready for breakfast.

After speaking to Father Nuncio, Father Mancuso called George Lutz to
tell him of the Chancellor's decision. He let the telephone ring for a
long time and was ready to give up when George answered. Father Mancuso
assumed the instrument was up to its weird tricks, so he was surprised
that he had gotten through without interference.

George said that they had just returned from seeing Jimmy off to East
Babylon. Then George repeated the results of their impromptu blessing
ceremony the night before. Dismayed, Father Mancuso urged George to heed
the Chancellors' advice and get out of the house then and there. "And
George," he said, "don't ever do that again. Your evoking God's name in
the manner you did can only anger whatever is in your house. Just don't
do anything anymore. It's already completely out of hand ..."

"Father," George interrupted. "What are you saying?"

The priest hesitated. Had he said too much? The Chancellors had confined

any discussion of the Lutzes' case to scientific causes, and there would
be a long period of investigation before the Church would acknowledge
demonic influence. He hadn't meant to express his own personal fears.
"I'm not sure," Father Mancuso corrected himself. "That's why I plead
with you to leave your house now until some determination can be made,
scientifically or-" The priest hesitated.

"Or what?" George asked.

"It may be more dangerous than any of us realize," Father Mancuso
answered. "Look, George, many things happen that none of us can really
explain away. I admit I'm very confused about what seems to be an evil
force in your house. I also admit that it may be caused by more than our
imaginations." The priest paused.

"George? You still there?"

"Yeah, Father. I'm listening."

"All right, then," Father Mancuso began again. "Please get out. Let
things cool down for a while. If you get away, maybe we can all think
this thing out with more rationality. I'll tell the Chancellors what
happened last night and maybe they'll send someone right ..."

Father Mancuso was interrupted by Kathy's scream over the telephone.
George blurted, "Call you back!" and the priest heard him bang down the
receiver. He stood there in his livingroom, wondering what unnatural act
was now being played out at 112 Ocean Avenue.

George ran up the stairs to the third floor. When he reached the
landing, he saw Kathy in the hallway shrieking at Danny, Chris, and
Missy. George could see why: On every wall in the hall were green
gelatinous spots, oozing down from the ceiling to the floor, settling in
shimmering pools of green slime.

"Which one of you did this?" Kathy fumed. "Tell me or I'll break every
bone in your bodies!"

"We didn't do it, Mama!" all three children chorused at once, dodging
the slaps she was aiming at their heads.

"We didn't do it!" Danny yelled. "We saw it when we came upstairs!"

George stepped between his wife and the children. "Wait a minute,
honey," he said gently, "maybe the kids didn't do it. Let me take a
look."

He went up to one wall and stuck his finger into a green spot. He looked
at the substance, smelled it, and then put a little against the tip of
his tongue. "It sure looks like Jello," he said, smacking his lips, "but
it doesn't have any taste at all."

Kathy was calming down after her tirade. "Could it be paint?" she asked.
George shook his head. "Nope." He tried to get the feel of the jelly by
rolling it against his finger tips. "I don't know what it is, but it
sure leaves a mess."

He looked up at the ceiling. "Doesn't seem to be coming from up
there..." George stopped. He looked around him as if realizing for the
first time where he was. In a rush, he recalled the conversation be bad
bad with Father Mancuso a few minutes before, and the dreaded word
"Devil" almost slipped from his lips.

"What'd you say, George?" asked Kathy. "I didn't hear you."

He looked at his wife and children. "Nothing. I was just trying to think
..." He began to edge the others toward the staircase. "Listen," he
said, "I'm hungry. Let's go down to the kitchen and have a bite. Then
the boys and me'll come back up and clean up this gook. Okay, gang?"

Jimmy and Carey bad arrived back in East Babylon. Carey was happy to be
away from 112 Ocean Avenue, even if it meant being at her
mother-in-law's. "I felt creepy there, Jimmy," she said, as they got out
of their car. "I know I saw that little boy last night, no matter what
anybody says." Jimmy reached out and patted his wife's behind. "Aw,
forget it, baby," he said. "It was just a dream. You know I don't
believe in that stuff." Carey squirmed away from Jimmy's touch, looking
around to see if any neighbors were watching. But as she was about to go
in the door, he grabbed her arm. "Listen, Carey," he said, drawing her
close, "Do me a favor. Don't mention what happened in front of Ma. She
gets very upset about such things. Next thing you know, we'll have a
priest over here."

Carey stood her ground. "What about our money you lost at Kathy's? You
say that was a dream, too?"

Father Mancuso spent the rest of the afternoon wondering why George
hadn't called him back after hearing Kathy scream. At one point, he
considered calling Sergeant Gionfriddo of the Suffolk County Police to
check on the Lutzes. But a policeman ringing their bell out of the blue
might cause them even more alarm. Oh, God, he thought, I hope nothing's
happened. Finally the priest picked up the phone and dialed George's

number.

There was no answer-because the whole family was out back in the
boathouse, where the noise of the compressor drowned out the sounds of
the rings. George, Danny, and Chris were dumping gobs of green jelly
into the freezing water beside their boat. The compressor hose kept
churning the substance, mixing it with the icy water so that it was
swept below the ice.

As the boys flung it over from the narrow wooden walkway, Kathy was
brushing away what fell from their pails. Missy was holding onto Harry
to keep the dog out of everyone's way. George worked in silence, trying
not to communicate his fears to Kathy and the children. Fortunately for
him, Kathy still suspected that the children had been responsible for
the mess; she hadn't yet equated the green slime with the other
mysterious problems that afflicted the house.

George had been so absorbed in his thoughts that he had completely
forgotten to call Father Mancuso back.

By that evening, sitting beside the fireplace, Kathy was all for leaving
for her mother's. But when she suggested they get out of the house that
night, George suddenly went berserk. "Goddammit, no!" he shouted,

jumping up from his chair, his face red with rage.

All the pressures that had been building within him finally exploded.
"Every goddamn thing we own in the world is in this house!" he stormed.
"I've got too much invested here to give it up just like that!"

The children, who were still up, cringed and ran to their mother's side.
Even Kathy was frightened by a side of George that she had never seen.
He had the look of a man possessed.

Absolutely livid, he stood at the foot of the staircase and screamed so
that he could be heard in every room in the house. "You sons of bitches!
Get out of my house!" Then he ran up the stairs to the third floor and
into the playroom and threw all the windows open wide. "Get out! Get out
in the name of God!"

George ran into the boys' bedroom, then down to the second floor and
repeated his actions, shoving up each window in every room, bellowing,
"Get out in the name of God!" again and again.

Some of the windows resisted his push, and he banged furiously on the
frames until they loosened. Cold air poured in from outside, and soon
the whole house was as frigid as the outdoors.

Finally George was finished. By the time he returned to the first floor,
the anger was leaving his body. Exhausted from his efforts and panting
heavily, he stood in the center of the livingroom, tightly clenching and
unclenching his fists.

While George was on his holy errand, Kathy and the children had been
rooted to a spot near the fireplace. Now they came up to him slowly,
encircled him, and he lifted his arms and embraced all four frightened
people.

There was a fifth, very human witness to this tableau. Sergeant Al
Gionfriddo, the police officer whom Father Mancuso had wanted to call,
had been making a final check of Amityville before he went off duty at
nine. As he was passing down Ocean Avenue, the astonishing sight of a
madman tearing around in 112, opening windows in the dead of winter, had
caused him to brake his cruiser.

Gionfriddo pulled up at the intersection where South Ireland Place cuts
into Ocean Avenue, directly opposite the Lutzes'. He turned off his
headlights. Something was holding him back from getting out of his car
and going up to that front door. He really didn't want to investigate
why the owner was behaving like a lunatic. Gionfriddo sat there and

watched as a woman went around and shut all the windows in the house.

That must be Mrs. Lutz, he thought. They seem to be all right now. I'll
just keep my nose out of it. He. sighed and turned over the motor of his
car. Keeping his headlights off, the policeman slowly backed down South
Ireland Place until he could make a left turn on the street that
paralleled Ocean. Only then did he turn on his lights.

Over the following hour, 112 Ocean Avenue warmed up again. The heat from
the radiators finally overcame the frigid air that had invaded the
house, and once more the thermostat read 75 degrees.

The boys had been dozing in front of the fireplace, while Kathy held
little Missy in her arms, rocking the sleeping girl. At ten o'clock she
checked the children's bedrooms and decided that Danny and Chris could
now go to bed.

Since his tirade, George had been completely uncommunicative, silently
staring at his blazing logs. Kathy left him alone, realizing her husband
was trying to resolve their dilemma in his own way. After the children
were tucked away upstairs, she finally went to him and gently tried to
urge him out of the room.

George looked at Kathy and she saw the confusion and anger in his face.
His eyes were misty; George seemed to be crying over his frustration.
The poor guy deserves a break, she thought. He shook his head at her
suggestion to go up to bed.

"You go," he said softly. "I'll be up in a while." His eyes returned to
the dancing flames.

In her bedroom, Kathy left the lamp on George's nightstand burning. She
undressed, slipped into bed, and closed her eyes. Kathy could hear the
wind howling outside. The sound slowly relaxed her so that in a few
minutes she began to doze off.

Suddenly Kathy sat bolt upright and looked at George's side of the bed.

He still wasn't there. Then she slowly turned her head and looked behind
her. She saw her image reflected in the mirrors that covered the wall
from ceiling to floor, and she had the urge to get the crucifix out of
the closet again.

So strong was the feeling that Kathy was halfway out of bed when she
stopped and again stared into the mirrors. Her image seemed to take on a
life of its own, and she could hear it saying: "Don't do it! You'll

destroy everyone!"

When George came up to the bedroom, he found Kathy asleep. He adjusted
the covers about his wife, then went to her nightstand and removed her
Bible from its drawer. He turned out his light and silently left the
room.

George returned to his chair in the livingroom, opened the Bible and
began at the beginning, the Book of Genesis, In this first book of God's
revelations, he came upon verses that caused him to reflect upon his
predicament. He read one aloud to himself: "And the Lord God said to the
serpent: Because thou hast done this thing, thou art cursed among all
cattle, and beasts of the earth: upon thy breast shalt thou go, and
earth thou shalt cat all the days of thy life."

George shivered. The serpent is the Devil, he thought. Then he felt a
hot blast on his face, and he snapped his head tip from the book. The
flames of the fireplace were reaching out for him!

George leaped off his chair and jumped back. The fire he had left to die
was roaring to life again, the blaze filling the entire hearth. He could
feel its searing heat. But then lie was stabbed in the back by an icy
finger.

George whirled about. Nothing was there, but he could feel a draft. He
could almost see it in the form of a cold mist coming down the staircase
in the hallway!

Gripping the Bible tightly, George raced up the steps toward his
bedroom. The cold wrapped itself about him as he ran. He stopped in his
bedroom doorway. The room was warm. Again he was struck by the icy
fingers. George ran to Missy's bedroom and flung open the door. The
windows were wide open, the below-freezing air pouring in.

George grabbed up his daughter from her bed. He could feel her little
body was icy and shivering. Rushing out of the room, he ran back to his
bedroom and put Missy under the cover. Kathy woke up. "Warm her up!"
George yelled. "She's freezing to death!"

Without hesitation, Kathy covered the little girl with her own body.
George ran out of the room and up to the third floor.

The windows in Danny's and Chris' bedroom, George found, were also wide
open. The boys were asleep but burrowed completely under their blankets.
He gathered both in his arms and staggered down the stairs to his
bedroom. Danny's and Chris' teeth were chattering from the cold. George

pushed them onto the bed and got under the blankets with them, his body
on top of theirs.

All five Lutzes were in one bed, the three children slowly thawing out,
the two parents rubbing their hands and feet. It took almost a half hour
before the children's body temperatures seemed back to normal. Only then
did George realize he was still holding onto the Bible. Knowing he had
been more than warned, he flung it to the floor.

21 January 10 - On Saturday morning, Kathy's mother, Joan, received a
frantic call from her daughter: "Ma, I need you immediately." When Mrs.
Conners tried to question Kathy over the phone as to what had happened
she said only that there was no way to explain; her mother had to see
for herself. The older woman took a cab from East Babylon to the house
in Amityville.

George let his mother-in-law in and hurried her upstairs to Kathy's
bedroom. Coming back down, he cautioned Danny, Chris, and Missy to
finish their breakfast.

When he left the kitchen to join the two women upstairs, the children
were unnaturally subdued and meekly obeyed their father. But judging

from the way they were eating, they had evidently recovered from their
freezing experience the night before.

When George entered his bedroom, his mother-in-law was examining Kathy,
who lay on the bed naked beneath her open bathrobe. Kathy watched as her
mother's finger traced the ugly red welts that extended from just above
her pubic hairline to the bottom of her breasts. The streaks were
flaming red as though she had been burned by a hot poker slashed
laterally across Kathy's body.

"Ow!" her mother winced, jerking a finger back from one of the welts on
Kathy's stomach. "I burned myself!"

"I told you to be careful, Mama!" Kathy cried. "It happened to George,
too!"

Kathy's mother looked at him, and George nodded. "I tried putting some
cold cream on them," he said, "but even that didn't help. The only way
you can touch her is with gloves."

"Did you call the doctor?"

"No, Ma," Kathy answered.

"She didn't want the doctor," George broke in. "She only wanted you."
"Does it hurt, Kathy?"

The frightened girl began to cry. George answered for her. "They don't
seem to. Only when she touches them."

Kathy's mother put a hand to her sobbing girl's hair, stroking it
gently. "My poor baby," she said. "Don't you worry now, I'm here.
Everything's going to be all right." She leaned forward and kissed
Kathy's tear-stained face. Then she closed Kathy's bathrobe, softly
folding it over her inflamed body. She stood up. "I'm going to call Dr.
Aiello."

"No!" cried Kathy. She looked at her husband, her eyes wild. "George!"
George put his band out to Mrs. Conners. "What are you going to tell
him?"

Kathy's mother was confused. "What do you mean?" she asked. "You can see
she's burned all over her body."

George was insistent. "But how are you going to explain it to him, Ma?
We don't even know how it happened. She just woke up that way. He'll

think we're nuts!"

He hesitated. if he told Kathy's mother any more about what had happened
during the night, he would have to disclose the demonic events that were
plaguing the house. Knowing Mrs. Conners' heavily Church oriented
background, George felt sure that she would insist upon Kathy and the
children leaving until she could talk to her priest. George had met the
cleric and knew him to be very much like the elderly confessor at St.
Martin of Tours in Amityville-unworldly when it came to anything beyond
simple parish duties. In reality, George would have welcomed a priest,
but not the one from East Babylon. And he did expect to hear momentarily
from George Kekoris, the psychical investigator.

"Let her rest a while, Ma," he finally said. "The marks seem to be
easing up from what they were before. Maybe they'll go away soon." He
was remembering the slash lines on Kathy's face.

"Yeah, Mama," Kathy said, also fearing to involve her mother any more
deeply. "I'll lie here a little longer. Can you stay with me?"

Kathy's mother looked from her daughter to George. There's something
going on that they're not telling me about, she thought to herself. She
would have liked to tell Kathy that she had never liked this house; that

each time she was here she felt uncomfortable. She just did not trust
112 Ocean Avenue. Looking back, Mrs. Joan Conners now knows why.

George left the two women upstairs and went down to the kitchen. Danny,
Chris, and Missy had finished their food and had even cleared off the
table in the breakfast nook. When he came in, there were questions in
their eyes.

"Mama's all right," George assured them. "Grandma's going to stay with
her."

He put his hand on top of Missy's head and turned her toward the
doorway.

"Come on, gang," George said, "let's go out for a while. We gotta get
some things at the store, and I want to stop at the library."

After George and the children had driven off, Kathy's mother left her
daughter alone for a few minutes and went downstairs to the kitchen to
call Jimmy. Her son would want to know why she had rushed off to Kathy's
so hurriedly. Jimmy had wanted to drive Mrs. Conners to Kathy's but she
said he should stay at home in case she needed anything from her house.

Over the phone, she told Jimmy that Kathy only had some stomach cramps;
she'd call him later when she was about to leave. Jimmy didn't believe
her and said he wanted to come over with Carey. He was not to come, his
mother yelled at him, and he wasn't to bring Carey. She didn't want the
report that Jimmy's family was a little crazy to get back to her son's
new in-laws.

Kathy, lying in bed, could hear her mother downstairs, shouting into the
telephone at her brother. She sighed and opened her robe once more to
look at the burning red marks on her body. The welts were still there,
but they did seem fainter. Then she tried touching one of the slashes
under her right breast. Her finger rested on the ugly spot. It seemed to
Kathy that the sensation wasn't as severe as before. The reaction was
more like putting her finger under very warm water. Again she sighed.
Kathy was about to close her bathrobe when she sensed someone was
staring at her nakedness. The feeling of a presence came from right
behind her, but Kathy couldn't bring herself to turn and look. She knew
the mirrored wall was there and she was afraid that in it, she would see
something terrible. Paralyzed with fear, she was unable to even raise
her arms to draw the robe about her. She remained that way, her body
completely exposed, her eyes tightly shut, cringing inwardly, waiting
for the unknown touch.

"Kathy! What are you doing! You'll catch your death of cold!" It was her
mother, back from the kitchen.

Even after the red welts had completely disappeared, Mrs. Conners didn't
want to leave Kathy. When George returned with the children, she argued
that the whole family should leave 112 Ocean Avenue. He could stay if he
wanted, but she insisted her Kathy and her grandchildren go.

By then, Kathy was asleep upstairs and after the latest episode, George
didn't want to awaken her. "Let her sleep a little longer, Ma," he said.
"We'll see about coming over later."

His mother-in-law had agreed reluctantly, getting him to promise to call
her the minute her daughter awoke. If you don't, George, I'll be back!"
she warned him. He called her a cab, and she returned to East Babylon at
four in the afternoon.

At the Amityville library, George had been able to secure a temporary
borrower's card and take out one book-on witches and demons. Now that
his mother-in-law had gone home, he sat alone in the livingroom, deep in
the subject of the Devil and his works.

It was after eight in the evening before George finished his borrowed

book. During the afternoon, Kathy's mother had prepared spaghetti and
meatballs that George set out at suppertime. Danny, Chris and Missy ate
while George continued reading. The last time he had looked in on Kathy,
she stirred a little and he thought she was about ready to awaken from
her much needed rest. Now he was in the kitchen and the three children
were in the livingroom watching television.

George had made notes while going through the book, and now he looked at
what he had jotted down. On the pad was a list of demons, with names he
had never heard of. George tried to pronounce them aloud, and they
rolled strangely off his tongue. Then he decided to call Father Mancuso.

The priest was surprised that the Lutzes were still at 112 Ocean Avenue.
"I thought you were going to leave the house," he said. "I told you what
the Chancellors said to do."

"I know, Father, I know," answered George. "But now I think I know how
to lick this thing." He picked up the book from the table. "I've been
reading about how these witches and demons work ..."

Good Lord, Father Mancuso thought, I'm dealing with a child, an
innocent. Here the man's house is about to explode under him and his
family, and he's talking to me about witches....

"... And it says here if you hold an incantation and repeat those
demons' names three times, you can call them up," George went on.
"There's a ceremony in here that shows you exactly what to do. Iscaron,
Madeste!", George began to chant. "Those are the names of the demons,
Father ..."

"I know who they are!" Father Mancuso blurted.

"Then there's Isabo! Erz, erz-this one's hard to pronounce. Erzelaide.
She has something to do with voodoo. And Eslender!"

"George!" the priest cried. "For God's sake! Don't invoke those names
again! Not now! Not ever!"

"Why, Father?" George protested. "It's right here in this book. What's
wrong with ..."

The telephone went dead in George's hand. There was an unearthly moan, a
loud clicking, and then just the sound of a disconnected line. Did
Father Mancuso hang up on me? George wondered. And what's happened to
this guy Kekoris?

"Was that my mother?"

George turned and saw Kathy standing in the doorway. No longer in her
bathrobe, she had combed her hair and was wearing slacks and a sweater.
Her face was slightly flushed.

George shook his head. "How do you feel, honey?" he asked. "Have a good
sleep?"

Kathy lifted up her sweater, baring her navel. "It's gone." She stroked
herself. "They're not there anymore." She sat down at the table. "Where
are the kids?"

"They're watching television," George answered. He took her hands in
his. "You want to call your mother now?"

Kathy nodded. She felt strangely relaxed, almost sensual. Ever since she
had the sensation of being stared at in her bed, Kathy had been in a
languorous mood, as if she had been completely satisfied sexually. It
had even carried over into her recent nap, she mused, when she had
unconnected visions of making love to someone. It wasn't George....

Kathy dialed her mother's number while George went into the livingroom

with the children. He heard a loud clap of thunder. Looking out the
windows, he saw the first raindrops strike the panes. Then somewhere in
the distance, a flash of lightning hit the darkness and again, a few
moments later, came another boom of thunder. George could make out the
silhouettes of trees swaying in the rising gusts.

Kathy came into the room. "My mother says it's raining cats and dogs
there," she announced. "She wants us to use our van rather than have
Jimmy come for us."

The rain was coming down much harder now, beating heavily against the
windows and outside walls. "From the sound of that," George said, "none
of us is going anywhere at the moment."

When she had left her bedroom, Kathy opened the windows about an inch to
air out the room. Even if there wasn't much room for water to get in,
with the coming storm, she wanted to play it safe. "Danny," she called.
"Run up to my room and close the windows tight. Okay?"

George himself ran out to bring Harry inside. In spite of the sheets of
icy rain that lashed at him, George could feel the cold spell was
breaking up. The rains would wash away the dirty piles of accumulated
snow. There was a problem living right on the river though, for such a

heavy rainfall could add to the frozen waters and overflow the
bulkheads.

George came back inside, with Harry gratefully shaking himself, just in
time to hear Danny, still upstairs, cry out in pain. Kathy raced ahead
of George up the stairs to their bedroom. Danny stood at a window, the
fingers of his right hand trapped under the window. With his left he was
trying to push up the heavy wooden frame.

George pushed Kathy aside and ran to the boy who was yelling and trying
to pull his fingers free. George tried to slide the window back up, but
it refused to budge. He hammered at the frame but instead of releasing
itself, the window vibrated, only hurting Danny more. In his
frustration, George became furious and started to curse, shouting
obscenities at his unseen, unknown enemies.

Suddenly the window came free on its own and shot up a few inches,
freeing Danny. He grabbed his fingers in his other hand, cradling them
and crying hysterically for his mother.

Kathy took the injured hand in her own. Danny didn't want to open his
fist, and she had to shout at him. "Let me see, Danny! Open your fist!"

Averting his eyes, the boy extended his arm. Kathy screamed when she saw
what his fingers looked like-all except the thumb were strangely flat.
Even more, frightened by his mother's anguished cry, Danny jerked his
hand away. George exploded. Running like a madman again from room to
room, he screamed invectives, challenging whatever was doing this to his
family to come out and fight. There was as much of a storm raging inside
112 Ocean Avenue as outside, as Kathy chased after her husband asking
him to call a doctor for Danny.

The rage within George soon spent itself. He suddenly became aware that
his little boy was hurt and needed medical attention. He ran to the
kitchen telephone and tried to call Kathy's family doctor, John Aiello.
But the line was dead. As he later learned, the storm had torn down a
telephone pole, locking the Lutzes in their house even more effectively.

"I'll have to drive Danny to the hospital," George shouted. "Put his
jacket on!"

The Brunswick Hospital Center is on Broadway in Amityville, no more than
a mile from the Lutzes' house. Because of the hurricane-force winds
raging through Long Island's South Shore, it took George almost fifteen
minutes to get there.

The intern on duty was amazed at the condition of Danny's fingers, which
were flattened from the cuticle to the second knuckle. But though they
certainly looked crushed beyond repair, they were not broken, with no
smashed bones-or cartilage. He bandaged them securely, gave George some
children's aspirin for Danny and suggested they return home. There was
nothing more he could do.

By then, the young boy was more frightened from the way his fingers
looked than from any pain. While George drove home, he held his hand
stiffly against his chest, sobbing and moaning. Again it took George
close to twenty minutes to drive back to 112 Ocean Avenue. The winds
whipped the front door of the house back against the building, and he
had trouble trying to close it behind him.

Kathy had put Chris and Missy in her own bed and was waiting in the
livingroom. She picked up her eldest and rocked him in her arms. Danny
finally cried himself to sleep, exhausted by the gruelling pain and
fear. George carried Danny up to their bedroom. Taking off only the
boy's shoes, he slid him under the covers next to the other two
children. Then he and Kathy sat down in chairs by the windows and
watched the rain smash against the panes.

They dozed fitfully all the rest of the night. They had to stay home-it

was impossible to try and get to Kathy's mother or to any other place to
sleep-but they were alert to any other dangers that might threaten their
children or themselves. Toward dawn both fell asleep.

At six-thirty George was awakened by the rain spattering against his
face. For an instant he thought he was outdoors-but no, he was still
inside in his chair by the window. Jumping up, he saw that every window
in the room was wide open, some frames torn away from their jambs. Then
he heard the wind and rain coming through in other parts of the house.
He rushed out of the bedroom.

Every room he went into was in the same condition, window panes broken,
the doors on the second and third floors smashed open-even though every
one had been locked and bolted! All the Lutzes had slept through what
must have been a terrible racket.

22 January 11 -The Lutzes had lived at 112 Ocean Avenue for twenty-five
days. That Sunday was one of the worst.

In the morning, they discovered that the battering rain and wind of the
night before had left the house a complete mess. Rainwater had stained
the walls, curtains, furniture, and rugs, from the first floor to the

third floor. Ten of the windows had broken panes and several had their
locks bent completely out of shape, making it impossible to shut them
tightly. The locks to the doors of the sewing room and playroom were
twisted and forced out of their metal frames; these couldn't be closed
at all. If the family had any intention of leaving for safer quarters,
that idea had to be shelved in order to get the house back in shape and
secured.

In the kitchen, some of the cabinets were soaked and warped. Paint was
chipped on the comers of almost every cabinet. Kathy hadn't really
thought about those problems yet; she had her hands full mopping up
almost an inch of muddy water that had accumulated on her tile flooring.
She hoped she could dry the floor before the tiles peeled loose from
their cement backing.

Danny and Chris had two large rolls of paper towels and were going from
room to room wiping down the walls. When they had to reach beyond their
arms' length, they used a little kitchen stepladder. Missy trailed along
with the boys, picking up the wet towels they discarded and throwing
them into a large plastic garbage bag.

George took down every set of curtains and drapes in the house. Some
could be machine-washed, and those he carried downstairs to the basement

laundry. The others that would have to be dry-cleaned were put in a pile
in the dining room, the driest room in the house.

The Lutzes were strangely silent while they worked that morning and
afternoon. This newest disaster had only made them more determined to
survive in 112 Ocean Avenue. Nobody said it, but George, Kathy, Danny,
Chris, and Missy Lutz were now ready to battle any force, natural or
unnatural.

Even Harry was putting on a show of toughness. The half-breed malamute
was on his lead in his compound, stalking back and forth through the
mud, his tail high, teeth bared. The growls and snarls that came from
deep within his heavy chest were signs that the dog would tear to shreds
the first person or thing he didn't recognize. Every once in a while,
Harry would stop his pacing, stare at the boathouse and let out a
wolf-like howl that sent shivers down the spine of everyone who lived on
Ocean Avenue.

When George finished with the sodden curtains, he began to work on the
windows. First he cut heavy plastic sheets to cover the broken panes and
sealed them to the window frames with white adhesive tape. It wasn't a
pretty sight from the inside or out, but at least it kept out the
steadily falling drizzle.

George bad guessed right. The temperature had risen with the storm, and
it was above freezing. A lot of damage had been done to the trees and
bushes along Ocean Avenue, and looking up South Ireland Place, George
could see that it too had its share of broken branches lying in the
street. He did note, however, that the neighbors on either side of his
house had no broken windows or any other exterior damages. Only me,
George thought. Terrific!

The locks on the windows and doors were a more difficult matter. George
didn't have the hardware to replace the catches on the windows, so he
used a pair of pliers to twist off the smashed pieces of metal. Then he
hammered heavy nails into the edges of the wooden frames and challenged
his unseen foes: "Let me see you pull those out, you sons of bitches!"
The locks to the sewing room and playroom doors be removed completely.
In the cellar he found some one inch pine boards that were perfect for
his needs. The doors opened outward into the hallway, so George nailed
the boards diagonally across both. For whatever might have remained in
the two mysterious rooms, there was no longer a way out.

George Kekoris finally telephoned, saying he'd like to come out and
spend a night. There was only one problem-since Kekoris had no equipment
with him, the Psychical Research Institute would have to consider the

visit an informal one. He would have to draw conclusions without the
rigorous controls required for scientific evaluation.

George said that didn't matter; he just wanted confirmation that all the
weird events in their house weren't the product of his or Kathy's
imagination. Kekoris asked George whether any sensitives had been there,
but George didn't understand what he meant by that term. The field
investigator said they would go into that when he came to visit.

Before George hung up, Kekoris asked whether there was a dog in the
house. George said he had Harry, a trained watch dog. Kekoris said that
was good because animals were very sensitive to psychic phenomena. Again
George was puzzled-but at least be had the first tangible evidence that
help was on the way.

At three in the afternoon, Father Ryan left the Chancery in Rockville
Centre. The Chancellor was concerned about Father Mancuso's mental
welfare in the Lutz case, and since one of his duties in the diocese was
to minister to the rectories, Father Ryan decided that now would be a
good time to visit the Long Island rectory.

He found the bearded priest recovering from his third attack of flu in
the past three weeks. Father Ryan said he was well aware of how highly

the Bishop esteemed Father Mancuso as a cleric. But he wanted to know if
Father Mancuso thought the recurring affliction could be psychosomatic.
Wasn't it possible that his emotional state could be influencing his
rash of illnesses?

Father Mancuso protested that he was rational, that he still believed
that strong evil forces were responsible for his debilitation. He was
willing to undergo a psychiatric examination by anyone the Chancellors
selected.

The Chancellor made no further demand that Father Mancuso remain away
from 112 Ocean Avenue, but stated that the decision would have to be
his. Father Mancuso was surprised and frightened. He understood he was
being tested: If he did accept responsibility for the Lutzes, he would
have the Chancellors' approbation; and if not, they would understand.
But there was no way he was going to involve himself to that extent. He
was deeply moved by the anxiety and problems that the Lutzes were
undergoing and he could not, in conscience as a priest, simply excuse
his own inherent fear, but he was terrified.

Father Mancuso finally said that before he made any more decisions in
the case, for the Lutzes and for himself, he would like to talk directly
to the Bishop. Chancellor Ryan recognized the urgency in the priest's

request and said he would be in touch with the superior later in the
day. He would call Father Mancuso that evening.

Kathy's mother called her around six o'clock, wanting to know if they
were coming to her house to spend the night. Kathy took it on herself to
say no: the house was still in a mess after the storm and she would have
a lot of washing to do the next morning. And besides, Danny and Chris
would have school, and they were missing too many days as it was.

Mrs. Conners reluctantly agreed, but made Kathy promise that she would
call if anything out of the ordinary occurred; her mother would then
send Jimmy over immediately. After Kathy hung up, she wondered aloud to
George if she had done the right thing.

"We're gonna stick it out," he said. "Before you send the kids to bed,
I'm going to go through the whole house with Harry. Kekoris said dogs
are very sensitive to things like this."

"Are you sure you won't make them mad again?"

Kathy asked. "You know what happened when we went around with the
crucifix."

"No, no, Kathy, this is different. I just want to see if Harry can smell
or hear anything."

"And what if he does? What are you going to do then?"

The dog, still in his aggressive mood, had to be kept on his leash.
Harry was very powerful and George had to take a snug grip just to keep
from being pulled along. "Come on, boy," he said, "sniff me out
something." They went down to the basement.

George removed the leash from Harry's collar and the dog leaped forward.
He circled the cellar, sniffing, sometimes scratching at spots along the
bottom of the waUs. When the dog came up against the storage closet that
hid the red room, Harry again sniffed at the base of the paneling. Then
his tail dipped between his legs, and he sank to his haunches. Harry
began to whimper, turning his head to George.

"What is it, Harry?" George asked. "You smell something there?" Harry's
whimpers grew more frantic and he began to crawl backwards. Then he
barked at George, stood up, and ran back up the cellar steps. He waited
at the top, quivering, until George came up and opened the door for him.

"What happened?" Kathy asked.

"Harry's afraid to go near the secret hideaway," George told her. He
didn't put on the leash again, but walked Harry through the kitchen,
dining room, livingroom, and enclosed porch. The dog's spirits picked up
and he friskily sniffed around each room. But when George tried to take
him upstairs, Harry hung back on the first step of the staircase.

"Come on," George urged him. "What's the matter with you?" The dog put
one paw on the next step, but wouldn't move beyond that.

"I can get him upstairs!" Danny shouted. "He'll follow me!" The boy
climbed past the dog and beckoned to him.

"No, Danny," George said. "You stay here. I'll handle Harry." George
reached down and jerked the dog's collar, Harry moved reluctantly, then
ran up the steps.

The dog walked around freely in both the master bedroom and the dressing
room. Only when he approached Missy's room did Harry hang back. George
put both hands on the dog's haunches and pushed him, but he wouldn't
enter her room. Harry behaved the same way in front of the boarded-up
sewing room. Whimpering and whining with fear, Harry tried to wedge
himself behind George.

"Goddammit, Harry," he said, "there isn't anyone in there. What's
bugging you?"

As soon as Harry came into the boys' room on the third floor, he jumped
up on Chris' bed. George chased him off. Shooed out of the room, the dog
headed directly for the stairs, passing the play room without so much as
a glance. George couldn't catch up with him.

George arrived downstairs behind the dog. "What happened?" Kathy asked.
"Nothing happened, that's what happened," he said.

Father Mancuso confirmed his appointment with the Bishop's secretary.
The prelate personally telephoned and suggested that if the priest felt
well enough to travel, he should be at the Rockville Centre diocese the
following morning.

Father Mancuso said that it was only fifteen minutes away, and his
temperature was normal. Though high winds were forecast, the weather
promised to remain above freezing. Father Mancuso told the Bishop's
secretary that all signs pointed to his being there.

At the Lutzes', as the day came to a close, the whole family was again

in the master bedroom. The three children were in the bed, and George
and Kathy were sitting up in chairs next to the damaged windows. The
room seemed overly warm and everyone's eyes bad begun to sting. George
and Kathy thought it was from fatigue. One after another, they drifted
off-first Missy, then Chris, Danny, Kathy, and finally George. Within
ten minutes, everyone was fast asleep.

But very shortly, George was rudely shoved awake by his wife. She and
the children were standing in front of his chair, tears in their eyes.
"What's the matter?" he mumbled sleepily.

"You were screaming, George," Kathy said, "and we couldn't wake you up!"

"Yeah, Daddy!" cried Missy. "You made Mama cry!"

Not fully awake, feeling almost drugged, George was completely
befuddled. "Did I hurt you, Kathy?"

"Oh, no, honey!" she protested. "You didn't touch me."

"What happened, then?"

"You kept yelling, 'I'm coming apart!' And we couldn't wake you up!"

23 January 12 - George couldn't understand. Why did Kathy say he was
yelling, "I'm coming apart!"? He knew perfectly well what he had said
was "I'm coming unglued."

Now he remembered he had been sitting in the chair when suddenly he felt
a powerful grip lift up the chair with him in it and slowly turn him
around. Powerless to move, George saw the hooded figure he had first
seen in the livingroom fireplace, its blasted half-face glaring at him.
The horribly disfigured features became clearer to George. "God help
me!" he screamed. Then he saw his own face emerge from beneath the white
hood. It was torn in two. "I'm coming unglued!" George yelled.

Now still groggy, he began to argue with Kathy. "I know what I said," he
muttered. "Don't tell me what I said!"

The others backed off. He's still asleep, Kathy thought, and he's having
a bad dream. "You're right, George," she said gently. "You didn't say
that at all." She pulled his head to her breast.

"Daddy," Missy broke in, "come to my room. Jodie says he wants to talk
to you!"

The urgency of his daughter's voice broke the spell. George snapped out
of it and jumped up, almost bowling Kathy over. "Jodie? Who's Jodie?"

"That's her friend," answered Kathy. "You know-I told you she makes up
imaginary people. You can't see Jodie."

"Oh, yes, Mama," Missy protested. "I see him all the time. He's the
biggest pig you ever saw." Then she trotted out of the room and was
gone. George and Kathy looked at each other.

"A pig?" he said. It struck them both at the same time. "The pig's in
her room!" George ran after Missy. "You stay here!" he yelled at Kathy
and the boys.

Missy was just climbing on the bed when George stopped outside her
bedroom door. He didn't see Jodie or anything like a pig. "Where's this
Jodie?" he asked Missy.

"He'll be right back," the little girl said, settling the covers around
herself. "He had to go outside for a minute."

George let out his breath. After the weird dream of the hooded figure,

George had expected the worst when he heard the word "pig." His neck
felt stiff and he rotated it, trying to work out the tight feeling.
"It's all right!" he yelled back to Kathy. "Jodie's not here!"

"There he is, Daddy!"

George looked down at Missy. She was pointing to one of her windows. His
eyes followed her finger and he started. Staring at him through one of
the panes were two fiery red eyes! No face, just the mean, little eyes
of a pig!

"That's Jodie!" cried Missy. "He wants to come in!"

Something rushed past George on his left. It was Kathy, screaming in an
unearthly voice. In the same move that it took her to reach the window,
she picked up one of Missy's little play chairs and swung it at the pair
of eyes. Her blow shattered the window and shards of glass flew back on
top of her.

There was an animal. cry of pain, a loud squealing and the eyes were
gone! George rushed to what was left of the second-story window and
looked out. He saw nothing below, but he still heard the squealing. It
sounded as if it was headed for the boathouse. Then Kathy's crying

whimper caught George's attention. He turned to his wife.

Kathy's face was terrifying. Her eyes were wild and her mouth was
tightly screwed up. She was trying to choke out words. Finally she
blurted: "It's been here all the time! I wanted to kill it! I wanted to
kill it!" Then her whole body slumped. George caught his wife and
silently picked her up. He carried Kathy into their bedroom, Danny and
Chris following. Only Chris saw his little sister get out of bed, go to
the smashed window, and wave. Missy turned away only when George called
her to come into his bedroom.

In the morning, while George and Kathy were still dozing in their
chairs, the children asleep in the big bed, Father Mancuso bundled up
and drove to Rockville Centre.

He shivered in the cold, nippy air. Father Mancuso hadn't been outside
too often since winter started and after the ride he felt a little
giddy. He was grateful when the Bishop's secretary offered him tea. The
young priest had often spoken with Father Mancuso and he admired the
older priest's legalistic mind. They chatted until the Bishop buzzed.

The meeting was brief-all too short for what Father Mancuso had in mind.
The prelate, a venerable, white haired cleric, was a moralist of

national reputation. He had the Chancellors' file on the Lutz case on
his desk, but to Father Mancuso's surprise, he viewed the report with
reluctance and caution.

The Bishop was very firm about the priest's dissociating himself from
the Lutzes and said he'd already assigned another cleric to pick up the
investigation.

Father Mancuso had nothing to say. "Possibly you should see a
psychiatrist," the Bishop continued.

At that, Father Mancuso became upset. "I will if I may choose my own."
The Bishop read the displeasure in his visitor's manner, and his voice
softened. "Look, Frank," he said, "I'm doing this for your benefit.
You've become obsessed with the idea that demonic influence is involved.
I get the impression that a good deal of it centers around you
personally. That may or may not be."

Standing up, the Bishop walked around his desk to Father Mancuso's chair
and put his hand on the priest's shoulder.

"Let someone else pick up the burden," he said. "It's affecting your
health. I've got too much for you to do here. I don't want to lose you.

You do understand, Father?"

On Monday morning, Kathy was determined that Danny and Chris go to
school. Ready to fly apart herself, she stiffened her backbone and did
her duty as a mother. While George slept on, she awakened the boys, fed
them breakfast, and took all three children with her in the van.

George was up when she returned with Missy. As she bad coffee with him,
Kathy realized he was still in a zombie-like state after the previous
night's affair. For the moment, Kathy was determined to be strong for
both of them. She talked to her husband in everyday terms, slipping in
the reminder that he had to fix the smashed window in Missy's bedroom.
Later there would be time to deal with the decision of moving from 112
Ocean Avenue.

Upstairs, George had just nailed plywood over the shattered window frame
to protect the room from damage by the weather when Kathy called up from
the kitchen that his office in Syosset wanted him on the telephone. The
company's accountant reminded George that the Internal Revenue Agent was
due to come by at noon.

Not wanting to leave the house, George asked the accountant to handle
the tax situation himself, but the man refused. It was George's

responsibility to determine how to pay the taxes. George hesitated,
certain that something would happen if he left. But Kathy signaled that
he should go.

After be hung up, Kathy said that the appointment shouldn't take too
long. She and Missy would be all right while he was gone. She would call
a glazier in Amityville to drive over and fix the broken panes in
Missy's window and throughout the house. Meekly, George nodded at his
wife's advice, then left for Syosset. Neither had mentioned Jodie's
name.

While Kathy was giving Missy her lunch, George Kekoris called. He was
sorry he hadn't been able to get there as he'd promised George, but said
he felt he'd picked up the flu in Buffalo. Kekoris' bout of illness had
forced him to cancel all his appointments for the Psychical Research
Institute. He was sure that he'd be fine by the following day, however,
and planned to stay at the Lutzes' Wednesday night.

Kathy half-listened to his explanation. She was watching Missy eat. The
little girl seemed to be having a secret conversation with someone under
the kitchen table. Every once in a while Missy would extend her hand
beneath the plastic tablecloth to offer her peanut butter and jelly
sandwich. She didn't seem to be aware that her mother was watching her

movements.

From her position, Kathy could see there was nothing under the table,
but she did want to ask her daughter about Jodie. Finally Kekoris was
finished and she hung up.

"Missy," Kathy said, sitting down at the table. "Is Jodie the angel you
told me about?"

The little girl looked at her mother, confusion on her face.

"You remember," Kathy continued. "You asked me if angels speak?"

Missy's eyes lit up. "Yes, Mama," she nodded. "Jodie's an angel. He
talks to me all the time."

"I don't understand. You've seen pictures of angels. You saw the ones we
had on the Christmas tree?"

Missy nodded again.

"You said he's a pig. So how can you say he's an angel?"

Missy's eyebrows grew together as she concentrated. "He says he is,
Mama," she nodded her head several times. "He told me."

Kathy hitched her chair closer to Missy. "What does he say when he talks
to you?"

Again the little girl seemed confused.

"You know what I mean, Missy," Kathy pressed her daughter. "Do you play
games?"

"Oh, no," Missy shook her head. "He tells me about the little boy who
used to live in my room." She looked around to see if anybody was
listening. "He died, Mama," she whispered. "The little boy got sick and
he died."

"I see," Kathy said. "What else did he tell you?"

The little girl thought for a moment. "Last night he said I was going to
live here forever so I could play with the little boy."

Horrified, Kathy put her finger to her mouth because she wanted to
scream.

George's session with the IRS had not gone well. The agent had
disallowed deduction after deduction, and George's only hope lay in the
appeal the agent said he could file. It was a temporary reprieve, at
least. After the man left, George called Kathy to say that he'd pick up
the boys at school on his way home.

When he arrived after three, Kathy and Missy had their coats on. "Don't
undress, George," she said. "We're leaving for my mother's right now."

George and the two boys looked at her. "What happened?" he asked.

"Jodie told Missy he's an angel, that's what happened." She began to
push the boys out the front door. "We're getting out of here."

George held up his hands. "Wait a minute, will you? What do you mean
he's an angel?"

Kathy looked down at her daughter. "Missy, tell your father what the pig
said."

The little girl nodded. "He said he's an angel, Daddy. He told me."

George was about to ask his daughter another question when he was
interrupted by loud barking from behind the house. "Harry!" he cried.
"We forgot about Harry!"

When George and the others reached him, Harry was barking furiously at
the boathouse, frantically running around his compound and jerking up
short every time he reached the end of his steel leash.

"What's the matter, boy?" George said, patting the dog's neck. "Someone
in the boathouse?" Harry twisted out of his grasp.

"Don't go in there!" Kathy yelled. "Please! Let's get out of here now!"
George hesitated, then bent down and snapped the leash off Harry's
collar. The dog leaped forward with a savage snarl and ran out of his
gate. The door to the boathouse was closed and the best Harry could do
was leap against it. Again he started his wild barking.

George was all set to unlock the door and fling it open. Instead, Danny
and Chris ran past him and leaped on Harry, wrestling the big dog away.

"Don't let him go in there!" Danny screamed. "He'll get killed!"

George grabbed Harry's collar and helped pull him down to a sitting

position.

"It's all right!" Chris kept assuring the powerful, agitated animal.
"It's all right, boy!" But Harry would not be calmed.

"Let's get him inside the house," George panted. "If he can't see the
boathouse, he'll stop!"

As he and the boys were drawing Harry into the house, a van pulled into
the driveway. George saw that it was a window repairman. He and Kathy
looked at one another. "Oh, my God," Kathy said, "I forgot all about
having called him." They hadn't reckoned on this kind of delay.

His pudgy face and broad accent gave away his Slavic descent. "I figured
you folks needed the fixing right away," he said, "what with the bad
weather we been having. Yah," he continued as he opened his rear doors,
"better to fix now. If everything inside get wet because of outside, it
cost you more money."

"Okay, that's fine," George said. "Come on in and I'll show you the
windows that got busted."

"The wind the other night, yah?" the man asked.

"Yeah, the wind," George answered.

It was almost six p.m. before the man was done. When the new window
panes were scraped free of putty, he stepped back to admire his work.
"I'm sorry," he said to George, "I could not fix window in little girl's
room. You need carpenter first." He gathered up his tools. "You get him,
then I come back, yah?"

"Yeah," George nodded. "We'll get him and you can come back." He reached
into his pants pocket. "How much do I owe you?"

"No, no," the man protested. "No money now. You neighbor. We send bill,
okay?"

"Okay!" George said, relieved. His cash was very low at the moment.
Somehow the glazier's kindness and friendliness left its mark on their
spirits that night. After he left, Kathy -who had been sitting in the
kitchen with her coat on all the time he worked-suddenly got up and took
it off. Without saying a word to George, she began to prepare supper.
"I'm not too hungry," George said. "A grilled cheese sandwich would do
just fine."

Kathy took out hamburger meat for herself and the children. As she
worked preparing the meal, she kept Danny and Chris with her in the
kitchen, insisting they do their homework in the nook. Missy sat in the
living room with George, watching television while he built up a fire.
The glazier had been just the reassurance they needed. After all,
nothing had happened to him while he was in the playroom or the sewing
room. The Lutzes realized that maybe their imaginations were too fired
up and they were panicking unnecessarily. All thought of abandoning
their home had momentarily disappeared.

Father Mancuso was an individual who despised bullies, be they man,
animal, or the unknown. The priest felt that the force that had 112
Ocean Avenue in its grip was taking undue advantage of the fears of the
Lutzes and of himself. Before he retired Tuesday night, Father Mancuso
prayed that this evil force could somehow be reasoned with; that it
should know what it was doing was totally insane. How could it derive
pleasure from pain, he asked himself? The priest knew there was only one
answer-it had to be demonic.

Just to be on the safe side, George and Kathy decided the children
should sleep in the master bedroom again. With Harry inside, down in the
cellar, Danny, Chris, and Missy were put to bed. George and Kathy made
themselves as comfortable as they could: Kathy stretched out on two

chairs; George insisted he was all right with one. He told Kathy he
planned to stay awake all night and sleep in the morning.

At 3:15 A.m., George heard the marching band strike up downstairs. This
time he did not go to investigate. He told himself it was all in his
head, and when he went down, there would be nothing to see. So he sat
there, watching Kathy and the children, listening as the musicians
paraded up and down his livingroom, horns and drums blasting away loud
enough to be heard half a mile away. All during the maddening
performance, Kathy and the children did not awaken.

Finally, George must have dozed off in his chair, because Kathy awoke to
hear him screaming. He was yelling in two different tongues-languages
she had never heard before!

She ran to her husband's chair on the other side of the bed to shake him
out of his dream.

George began groaning, and when Kathy touched him, he cried out in
another completely different voice: "It's in Chris's room! It's in
Chris's room! It's in Chris's room!"

24 January 13 -George is positive he wasn't dreaming. From his position
he was sure be could see clear to the boys' bedroom on the third floor.
He had been watching a shadowy figure approach Chris's bed.

He tried to rush to his sleeping son's side and grab him away from the
menacing shape. But George couldn't get up from his chair! He was pinned
to the seat by a firm hand on his shoulders. It was a struggle George
knew he couldn't win.

The shadow hovered over Chris. George, helpless, shouted: "It's in
Chris's room!" No one heard him.

"It's in Chris's room!" he repeated. Then the pressure on his shoulders
lifted and George felt himself being pushed. His arms came free and he
could see Chris was out of bed, wrapped inside the dark shape.

George swung his hands wildly about, again screaming: "It's in Chris's
room!" He felt another violent push. "George!"

His eyes snapped open. Kathy was leaning over him, pushing at his chest.
"George!" she cried. "Wake up!"

He leaped free of the chair. "It's got Chris!" he yelled. "I've got to

get up there!"

Kathy grabbed his arm. "No!" She was pulling him back. "You're dreaming!
Chris is here!"

She pointed to their bed. The three children were under the covers.
Awakened by George's shouting, they were now watching their parents.
George was still agitated. "I wasn't dreaming, I tell you!" he insisted.
"I could see it pick him up and ..."

"You couldn't have," Kathy interrupted. "He's been here in bed all the
time."

"No, Mama. I had to go to the bathroom before." Chris sat up. "You and
Daddy were asleep."

"I never heard you. Did you use my bathroom?" Kathy asked.

"Unh-unh. The door was locked, so I went upstairs."

George went to the bathroom. The door was locked.

"Upstairs?" asked Kathy.

"Yeah," Chris answered. "But I got scared."

"Why?" his father asked.

"Because I could look through the floor and see you, Daddy."

The Lutzes remained awake for the rest of the night. Only Missy fell
back to sleep. In the morning, George called Father Mancuso.

Minutes before, Father Mancuso had come to a decision. His anguish over
the Lutzes' children and their safety had overcome his fear. Feeling he
had been a coward long enough, Father Mancuso was now resolved to return
to the Bishop and ask that he be allowed to continue communicating with
George. He showered for the first time in days, then prepared to shave.
As he was plugging in his electric razor, Father Mancuso gasped. Beneath
his eyes were the same black circles he had first seen at his mother's.
The telephone rang at that very moment.

Even before he answered the telephone, the priest knew who was calling.
"Yes, George?" he said.

George was too preoccupied to notice that Father Mancuso had anticipated

him. He announced that he and Kathy had decided to take the Chancellors'
advice and leave 112 Ocean Avenue. They were going to his
mother-in-law's until George could get some kind of investigation going.
Too many incidents were beginning to involve the children, and George
felt that if he delayed any longer, Danny, Chris, and Missy might be in
frightful danger. The priest did not ask what kinds of incidents, nor
did he mention the reappearance of the circles under his eyes. He
readily agreed the children's welfare should be everyone's prime concern
and that George was right about going. "Let whatever's there have the
place," he said. "Just go."

Danny and Chris did not go to school in Amityville that morning. Kathy
kept them home again because she wanted to pack as soon as possible.
George said they'd leave as soon as he called the police to tell them
the family would be away for a while. He also wanted them to have Mrs.
Conners' telephone number in case of any emergency. But when he picked
up the telephone to dial the Police Department, the line was dead. When
her husband told Kathy the phone was out of order, she became extremely
nervous. Hurriedly she dressed the children and then, without taking a
change of clothes, herded them out to the van.

George brought Harry from the cellar and put him in the rear of the van.
Then he went around the house and checked to make sure all the doors

were locked. Finishing with the boathouse, George climbed behind the
wheel of the van. He turned the ignition key but the motor wouldn't turn
over.

"George?" Kathy's voice quivered. "What's wrong?"

"Take it easy," he said. "We got enough gas. Let me take a look under
the hood."

As he got out of the van, he looked up at the sky. The clouds had grown
dark and menacing. George felt a cold wind picking up. By the time he
lifted the hood, the first raindrops were hitting the windshield.

George never got a good look at what could have caused the van to stall.
A huge gust of wind blew in from the Amityville River in the back of the
house, and the hood was slammed down. George had just leaped aside to
avoid the falling metal when a lightning bolt struck behind the garage.
The clap of thunder was almost instantaneous, and the clouds broke in a
solid sheet of water that drenched George immediately.

He ran for the front door and unlocked it. "Get in!" he shouted to his
family in the van. Kathy and the children bolted for the open door, but
by the time he managed to close it behind them, all were soaking wet.

We're trapped, he thought to himself, not daring to voice the thought to
Kathy. It's not going to let us go.

The rains and wind picked up in intensity, and by one o'clock in the
afternoon, Amityville was hit by another storm of hurricane strength. At
three, the electricity went out, but fortunately the heat remained in
the house. George switched on the portable radio in the kitchen. The
weather report said it was 20 degrees and that sleet was pelting all of
Long Island. Since the radar showed an enormous low pressure system
covering the entire metropolitan area, the weatherman could not predict
when the storm would subside.

George dealt with Missy's broken window as best he could, shoving towels
into the spaces where it hung away from the frame, then nailing an old
blanket over the entire window. Before he had finished, his fresh dry
clothes were soaked again.

In the kitchen, George looked at the thermometer that hung beside the
back door. It read 80 degrees and the house was getting uncomfortably
warm. He knew that with the electricity off, the oil burner's thermostat
wouldn't operate. But when George looked again at the thermometer, it
was up to 85 degrees.

To cool off the house, George had to have some fresh air. He inched open
the windows on the enclosed porch-the only room that faced away from the
storm's main onslaught.

From the time the storm broke, it had remained dark outside, and even
though it was daytime, Kathy had lit candles. At four-thirty it was as
if night had already settled over 112 Ocean Avenue.

Every once in a while she would pick up the telephone to see if it was
working again, but she really had little hope that it would be-the storm
would prevent any repair crews from going out on call. The children
weren't fazed at all by the darkness. They treated the whole affair as a
holiday, noisily running up and down the staircase, playing
hide-and-seek. Since the boys were much better at hiding themselves,
Missy was usually "it." Harry happily joined in the romping, finally
irritating George to the point where he cuffed the dog with a newspaper.
Harry ran off and hid behind Kathy.

By six in the evening, the storm still hadn't slackened. It was as
though all the water in the world was being dumped on top of 112 Ocean
Avenue. And inside the house, the temperature was up to 90 degrees.
George went to the basement to look at the oil burner. It was off, but
it didn't matter; the heat continued to rise in all the rooms except

Missy's.

Desperate, he decided to make a final appeal to God. Holding a candle,
George began going from room to room, asking the Lord to send away
whoever didn't belong there. He felt mildly reassured when there was no
sinister reaction to his prayers.

After the playroom door had been damaged during the first storm, George
had removed the lock. Now as he approached the room to recite his appeal
to God, he saw the green slime was back, leaking from the open hole in
the door and oozing onto the floor of the hallway. George watched as the
pool of jelly-like substance slowly wound its way toward the staircase.

He pulled off the pine boards nailed across the door and threw it open,
half-expecting to find the room filled with the slimy material. But its
only source seemed to be the empty lock hole in the door! George
gathered some towels from the third floor bathroom and stuffed them into
the opening. The towels soon became saturated, but the jelly stopped
flowing. He wiped up the slime that had accumulated in the hallway and
had managed to flow down the steps. George had no intention of telling
his wife about this latest discovery.

All the time her husband was going through the house, Kathy sat by the

telephone. She had tried opening the kitchen door a little to let in
some air, but even when it was only slightly ajar, rainwater showered
into the room. She began to doze from the oppressive heat.

When George finally returned to the kitchen, she was almost fast asleep,
resting her head on her arms on the breakfast table in the nook. Kathy
was perspiring, the back of her neck damp to his touch. When he tried to
awaken her, she lifted her head slightly, mumbled something he couldn't
understand, then let her forehead fall back on her arms.

George had no need to check whether the rain and windstorm had let up.
Torrents of water were still smashing against the house, and he somehow
knew they wouldn't be allowed to leave 112 Ocean Avenue that night. He
picked Kathy up in his arms and took her to their bedroom, noting the
time on the kitchen clock. It was exactly 8 p.m.

Finally the 90 degree heat got to Danny, Chris, and Missy. Their running
about the house most of the day bad worn them out, so shortly after
George had taken Kathy upstairs, they were ready for bed. George was
surprised to find it was somewhat cooler in the boys' room on the third
floor. He knew that hot air rises, and on the top floor it should have
been well above ninety.

Missy sleepily climbed into bed beside Kathy, but refused to be covered
with a sheet or blanket. Before George went back downstairs, she and the
boys were asleep.

George and Harry were now all alone in the livingroom. For a change, the
dog didn't seem to be about to fall asleep early but watched his owner's
every move. He, too, was suffering from the excessive heat. Whenever
George rose from his chair to go into another room, Harry would not
follow, but remained stretched out in the cool draft beneath the living
room windows.

George thought of running outside to the van to see if it would start.
It was still standing in the driveway and George knew its engine would
probably be wet by now. But the real deterrent was George's suspicion
that once he left, he might not be able to get back into the house.
Something within him warned him that he'd never get the front or kitchen
door open again.

Suddenly, at ten o'clock, the 90 degree heat began to break. Harry
noticed it first. The dog stood, sniffed the air, then walked over to
the unlit fireplace where George was sitting, and whimpered. His
pathetic sounds broke his master's concentration on the van. George
looked up and shivered. There was a definite drop in the house's

temperature.

A half hour later, the thermometer read 60 degrees. George started for
the basement to get some logs. Harry trotted along behind him to the
cellar door, but would not descend the steps with George. He remained in
the open doorway, constantly turning his head as if to see if someone
was coming up behind him.

George used his flashlight to search out every comer of the basement,
but there were no signs of anything unusual. With several logs in his
arms, George climbed back upstairs and tried the telephone in the
kitchen. It was still dead. He was all set to relight the kindling wood
in the fireplace when he thought he heard Missy cry out.

When he reached his bedroom, the little girl was shivering; he had
forgotten to cover her when the house got chilly. Kathy on her stomach,
was sleeping like a drugged person, not moving or turning in bed. George
also tucked blankets about his wife's cool body.

When lie finally went back down to the livingroom, George decided not to
make a fire. He wanted to be free to stay near Kathy and the children.
Tonight, he thought, I'd better be ready for anything. George put on
Harry's long metal leash and took the dog up to the master bedroom. He

left the door open, but knotted the leash so that Harry blocked the
doorway completely. Then George kicked off his shoes, and without
undressing, slid into bed beside Missy and Kathy. Rather than lie down,
he sat up with his back resting against the headboard.

At one o'clock, George felt he was freezing. Because of the noise of the
raging storm outside, he knew there was no hope of heat in the house
that night from the oil burner. He began to weep to himself about the
sorry plight he and his family were in. He now realized he should have
fled when Father Mancuso originally warned him. "Oh, God, help us," he
moaned. Suddenly, Kathy lifted up her head. While he watched, she got
off the bed and turned to look into the mirror on the wall. George saw
in the candlelight that her eyes were open, but he knew she was still
asleep. Kathy stared at her reflection for a moment, then turned away
from the mirrored wall and started for the bedroom door. But she stopped
when she came to an obstacle: Harry was fast asleep, stretched across
the threshold, blocking her path.

George leaped from the bed and seized his wife. Kathy looked at him with
unseeing eyes. To George, she seemed to be in a trance.

"Kathy!" he cried. "Wake up!" When George shook her, there was no
response or reaction. Then her eyes closed. Kathy went limp in his arms

and gently he half pulled, half lifted her back to the bed. First he sat
Kathy down, then straightened her legs so that she was lying flat. Her
trance-like state seemed to affect her whole body. She was like a rag
doll.

George noted that Missy, in the middle of the bed, had slept through the
whole episode. But then his attention was diverted by a movement in the
doorway. He saw Harry struggle to his feet, shake violently, and then
begin to retch. The dog threw up all over the floor, but kept gagging
and trying to force out something that seemed stuck in his throat.
Restricted by his leash, the poor dog was only twisting the chain more
tightly about his writhing body.

The odor of vomit caused George to gag too. He fled into the bathroom,
gulped a mouthful of water, took a deep breath, and came out with towels
from the rack. After he mopped up the floor, George untied Harry and set
the dog free. Harry looked up at George, wagged his tail several times,
then stretched himself out on the floor of the hallway, closing his
eyes. "There's not much wrong with you now," George whispered under his
breath. He listened, but everything was quiet throughout the house-much
too quiet. In a few moments, George realized the storm had stopped.
There was no rain, no wind. The stillness was so complete it was as
though someone had turned off running water in a sink. There was a

vacuum of silence at 112 Ocean Avenue.

With the storm gone, the temperature outside began to drop and in a very
short time, the house became ice cold. George could feel the bedroom
become even chillier than it had been. He still had all his clothes on
when he slipped back beneath the covers.

There was a noise above George's head. He looked up and listened.
Something was scraping along the floor of the boys' bedroom. The noise
became louder, and George could tell the movement was faster now. The
boys' beds were sliding back and forth! George managed to throw off his
covers, but he could not lift his body out of bed. There was no pressure
as there had been before when he sat in the bedroom chair. George just
didn't have the strength to move! Now he heard the dresser drawers
across his room begin to open and close. A candle was still on his
nightstand and he could make out the drawers rapidly sliding back and
forth. One drawer would fly open, then another, then the first would
bang shut. Tears of frustration and fear flooded George's eyes.

Almost immediately after that, the voices began. He could hear them
downstairs, but couldn't make out what was being said. He only knew that
it sounded as if a lot of people were thronging on the first floor.
George's bead began to roll as he tried to reach over and touch Missy or

Kathy.

Then the marching band struck up downstairs, its music drowning out the
unintelligible voices. George thought he must be in a madhouse. He could
distinctly hear musicians parade around the entire first floor-and then
their first steps as they began to mount the staircase!

George was screaming now, but he heard no sounds coming from his throat.
His body whipped back and forth on the bed and he could feel the
terrible strain on his neck muscles as he vainly tried to lift his head
from the mattress. Finally George gave up. He realized the mattress was
soaking wet.

The beds were banging around above George's head, and the dresser
drawers in his room were flying back and forth as the band headed up the
steps to the second floor. But that was not all. Despite all the noise,
George now heard doors throughout the house beginning to slam back and
forth! He saw the door to the bedroom swing wildly as though someone
were yanking it open and then immediately slamming it shut. George could
also see Harry lying outside in the hallway, completely undisturbed by
the racket. Either that dog is drugged, George thought, or I'm the one
who's going mad!

A terrible, blinding flash of lightning lit up the bedroom. George heard
the thunderbolt strike something close outside. Then there was a
smashing blow that shook the entire house. The storm was back, with
torrents of rain and wind lashing 112 Ocean Avenue from top to bottom.

George lay there panting, his heart thumping loudly in his chest. He was
waiting, knowing something else was about to happen. Then George let out
a horrible, silent scream. Somebody was on the bed with him!

He felt himself being stepped on! Strong, heavy feet struck his legs and
body. George shut his eyes. He could feel the pain from the blows. Oh
God! he thought. They're hooves. It's an animal!

George must have passed out from fright, because the next thing be
remembers was the sight of Danny and Chris standing beside his bed.
"Daddy, Daddy, wake up!" they were crying, "there's something in our
room!"

He blinked his eyes. In a glance he saw it was light outside. The storm
had stopped. The dresser drawers were all open, and his two sons were
pleading with him to get up.

Missy! Kathy! George turned to look at them. They were still next to

him, both still sound asleep. He turned back to the boys, who were
trying to pull him out of bed. "What's the matter?" he asked. "What's in
your room?"

"It's a monster!" Danny cried. "He doesn't have any face!"

"It tried to grab us," Chris broke in, "but we ran away! Come on, Daddy,
get up!"

George tried. He almost got his head off the mattress when he heard
Harry bark furiously. George looked past the boys through the open
doorway. The dog was standing in the hallway, snarling and growling at
the staircase. Even though he was unleashed, Harry did not head for the
stairs, but continued to crouch in the hallway, teeth bared, barking at
something or someone George couldn't see from his position on the bed.

With a tremendous burst of determination, George finally heaved his
whole body off the mattress. He arose so suddenly that he crashed into
Danny and Chris. Then he ran for the open door and looked up at the
steps.

On the top step stood a gigantic figure in white.

George knew it was the hooded image Kathy had first glimpsed in the
fireplace. The being was pointing at him!

George whirled and raced back into the bedroom, grabbed up Missy, and
shoved her into Danny's arms. "Take her outside!" he shouted. "You go
with them, Chris!"

Then be bent over Kathy and lifted her off the bed. "Hurry!" George
yelled after the boys. Then he too ran from the room, Harry following
him down the steps.

On the first floor, George saw the front door was open, hanging from its
hinges again, torn away by some powerful force.

Danny, Chris, and Missy were outside. The little girl, just awakening,
was squirming in her brother's arms. Not knowing where she was, she
started to cry with fright.

George ran for the van. He put Kathy on the front seat and then helped
the children into the rear. Harry jumped in behind them, and he slammed
the door on Kathy's side. George ran around to the other side of the
vehicle, jumped in the driver's seat, and prayed.

He jammed in the ignition key.

The motor turned over immediately.

Spraying wet gravel, George backed out of the driveway. When he hit the
street, he skidded, spun the wheel, and stepped on the gas at the same
time. The van teetered for a moment, then all four tires grabbed and
smoke shot up from the rubber treads. in another instant, the van was
tearing up Ocean Avenue.

As he steered the van toward safety, George looked into the side view
mirror. His house was fast disappearing from his sight. "Thank God!".he
muttered to himself. "I'll never see you again, you sonofabitch!"

It was seven o'clock on the morning of January 14, 1976; the
twenty-eighth day the Lutzes had lived in 112 Ocean Avenue.

25 January 15 -That morning, at the very moment the Lutzes were fleeing
from their home, Father Mancuso decided to get out of town.

He waited until eleven o'clock, because then it would be eight A.M. in
San Francisco, and he didn't want to awaken his cousin too early with a

telephone call. The priest announced be was flying West for a vacation.
He would leave in a day or so, probably on Friday, January 16.

Father Mancuso hung up, feeling greatly relieved. This was the first
positive step he had taken in weeks.

The priest reasoned that a week in the California sun could only help
his run-down condition and possibly bake the flu out of his system. Let
the diabolical powers in 112 Ocean Avenue have the house and the cruel
New York winter weather!

He called his office back at the diocese in order to inform them of his
plans. They were to reschedule his appointments and duties until after
January 30th. He would contact some of his clients in counseling on his
own.

As the morning wore on, the priest felt progressively better. He had
much to do before leaving, and all his thoughts of the Lutzes were
shunted into the background. But at four in the afternoon, George Lutz
called from his mother-in-law's in East Babylon. He said he wanted to
let Father Mancuso know that he, Kathy, and the children were going to
stay there until the scientific investigations were made at his house in
Amityville. "That's fine, George," Father Mancuso said. "But be careful

of who goes into the house. Don't make a circus out of this thing."

"Oh, I won't, Father," George replied. "We don't want people trampling
all over the place. All our stuff is still there. Nobody gets in unless
I say so."

"Good," the priest said. "Just follow up on the parapsychologists. The
Chancery says they're the best equipped to investigate a situation like
this."

"There's just one thing," George broke in. "Supposing they can't come up
with answers. And after last night, Father, I frankly don't think they
can. Then what? What happens next?"

Father Mancuso let out a gasp. "What do you mean, after last night?
Don't tell me you stayed there again?"

There was silence on the telephone. Finally George answered. "It
wouldn't let us go. We couldn't get out until this morning."

Father Mancuso felt his palms itch. He looked into his left hand. It was
becoming blotchy. Oh no, he thought. Please God, not again! No more!
Without another word to George, the priest hung up. He shoved his hands

crossways beneath his armpits, trying to shield them. He began to rock
back and forth on his heels. "Please, please," he whimpered, "let me
alone. I promise I won't talk to him again."

George couldn't understand why Father Mancuso had hung up on him. The
priest should have been happy that they were out of the house. He held
the receiver in his hand, staring at the instrument. "What'd I say?" he
murmured.

A sharp tug on his sleeve interrupted George's thoughts. It was Missy.
"Here, Daddy," she said. "I made Jodie like you said."

"What?" George asked. His daughter was holding up a paper drawing. "Oh,
yeah," he said. "Jodie's picture. Let me see it."

George took the paper from Missy. It was a child's rendering of a pig,
distorted, but clearly a five year-old's idea of a ~running animal.

He raised his eyebrows. "What are all these things around Jodie?" he
asked. "They look like little clouds."

"That's snow, Daddy," Missy answered. "That's when Jodie ran away in the
snow."

Father Mancuso decided to catch the 9:00 p.m. TWA flight to San
Francisco. When the panic after George's call had left him, the priest
immediately picked up the telephone and spoke to his cousin's wife. He
told her he had changed his mind and would be coming out that night. She
agreed to meet him at San Francisco's International Airport.

Father Mancuso packed only one suitcase; called his mother, the diocese
office, and a cab company. By eight, he was out of the Rectory and on
his way to Kennedy Airport. When the priest checked in at the TWA
counter he looked again at his palms. The blotches were gone, but his
fear wasn't.

Jimmy and Carey went to stay at her mother's house that night. But
before they left, there was a small celebration at Mrs. Conners' house.
Because of the dramatic feeling of relief that swept over the Lutzes
just to be free of 112 Ocean Avenue, it was practically a party.

George and Kathy now wanted to talk about their experiences, and in her
family, they had a sympathetic and credulous audience. Events spilled
from their lips in a flood as they tried to explain what had happened to
them. Finally, George revealed his plans to rid his house of whatever
evil force remained there. He told his mother-in-law and Jimmy that

research groups would be invited to participate, but they would have to
conduct their investigations by themselves. Under no circumstances would
he or Kathy ever enter 112 Ocean Drive again.

Danny, Chris, and Missy were to sleep in Jimmy's room. The boys were
exhausted from the harrowing appearance of the "monster" the night
before and from the excitement of fleeing to their grandmother's. But
they didn't want to talk about the white-hooded demon figure. When
George pressed them to tell their version, both boys fell silent and
looks of fear came over their faces.

Missy appeared to be entirely unaffected by the whole affair. She
adapted easily enough to the new adventure and made herself right at
home with a few dolls she had cached at her grandmother's. She wasn't
even perturbed when Kathy questioned her further about Jodie's picture.
The little girl would say only, "That is what the pig looked like."

George and Kathy took their baths early. Both luxuriated in the hot
water and soaked for a long time. It was a dual cleansing: their bodies
and their fright. By ten p.m., they were in bed in the guest room. For
the first time in almost a month, the Lutzes fell asleep in each other's
arms.

George awoke first. He felt as if he was having a dream, because he had
the sensation of floating in air!

He was aware of his body being flown around the bedroom and then landing
softly back on the bed. Then, still in his dreamlike state, George saw
Kathy levitate off the bed. She rose about a foot and slowly began to
drift away from him.

George reached out a hand to his wife. In his eyes, the movement was
almost in slow motion, as though his arm was not attached to his body.
He tried to call to her, but for some reason, he couldn't remember her
name. George could only watch Kathy fly higher toward the ceiling. Then
he felt himself being lifted, and again he had the sensation of
floating.

He could hear someone calling to him from a great distance. George knew
the voice. It sounded very familiar. He heard his name again. "George?"
Now he remembered. It was Kathy. George looked down and saw she was back
on the bed, looking up at him.

He began to drift toward Kathy, then felt himself slowly settling back
down on the bed beside her. "George!" she cried. "You were floating in
the air!"

Kathy grabbed his arm and pulled him off the bed. "Come on!" she
shouted. "We've got to get out of this room!"

As though he was sleepwalking, George followed his wife. At the head of
the staircase they both stopped and recoiled in horror. Coming up the
steps toward them was a snake-like line of greenish-black slime!

George knew he had not been dreaming. It was all real. Whatever he had
thought they had left forever back at 112 Ocean Avenue was following
them-wherever the Lutzes fled.

EPILOGUE

On February 18, 1976, Marvin Scott of New York's Channel 5 decided to
investigate further the reports on the so-called cursed home of
Amityville, Long Island. The mission called for spending the night in
the haunted home at 112 Ocean Avenue. Psychics, clairvoyants, a
demonologist, and parapsychologists were invited to participate.

Scott had originally contacted the recent tenants, the Lutz family, and
requested permission to film activities at their deserted house. George

Lutz agreed and sat down at a meeting with Scott in a small pizzeria in
Amityville. George refused to re-enter 112 Ocean Avenue, but said he and
his wife, Kathy, would wait for the investigators the next day at the
Italian restaurant.

To provoke the overpowering force said to be within the house, a
crucifix and blessed candles were placed in the center of the dining
room table. The researchers held the first of three seances at 10:30
p.m. Present around the table were Lorraine Warren, a clairvoyant; her
husband, Ed, a demonologist; psychics Mary Pascarella and Mrs. Albert
Riley; and George Kekoris of the Psychical Research Institute in Durham,
North Carolina. Marvin Scott also joined the group at the table.

During the seance, Mary Pascarella became ill and had to leave the room.
In a quaking voice, she said, "that in back of everything there seems to
be some kind of black shadow that forms a head, and it moves. And as it
moves, I feel personally threatened."

Mrs. Riley, in a mediumistic trance, began gasping. "It's upstairs in
the bedroom. What's here makes your heart speed up. My heart's
pounding." Ed Warren wanted to end the seance. Mrs. Riley continued to
gasp, then quickly came out of her trance and back to normal
consciousness.

Then George Kekoris, the psychic researcher, also became violently ill
and had to leave the table. Observer Mike Linder of WNEW-FM stated that
he had felt a sudden numbness, a kind of cold sensation.

Clairvoyant Lorraine Warren finally voiced her own opinion: "Whatever is
here is, in my estimation, most definitely of a negative nature. It has
nothing to do with anyone who had once walked the earth in human form.
It is right from the bowels of the earth."

Television cameraman Steve Petropolis, who bad been assigned some scary
assignments in combat zones, experienced heart palpitations and
shortness of breath when he investigated the sewing room upstairs where
the negative force was said to be concentrated. When Lorraine Warren and
Marvin Scott went into that room, they both came out saying that they
had felt a momentary chill.

Lorraine and Ed Warren also found a source of discomfort in the living
room. Mrs. Warren thought some negative forces were centered in statues
and nonliving things; "That whatever is here, is able to move around at
will. It doesn't have to stay here, but I think it's a resting place."

She also thought there was something demonic in the inanimate objects.

Mrs. Warren indicated the fireplace and banister on the second floor,
without being forewarned of their connection with the Lutzes' problems.
As some people slept in some of the second floor bedrooms, a
photographer shot infrared pictures in the vain hope of capturing some
ghostly image on film. Jerry Solfvin of the Psychical Research Institute
wandered about the house with a battery lantern, searching for physical
evidence.

At 3:30 A.M., the Warrens attempted another seance. There was nothing
unusual reported, no sounds or strange phenomena. All the psychics felt
the room had been neutralized. The atmosphere, they said, simply wasn't
right at the moment. But they definitely felt that the house on Ocean
Avenue was harboring a demonic spirit, one that could be removed only by
an exorcist. When Marvin Scott returned to the little pizzeria, the
Lutzes were gone. By March, they had moved clear across the country to
California. They left behind all their belongings, all their worldly
goods, and all the money they had invested in their dream home. Just to
be rid of the place, they signed their interest over to the bank that
held the mortgage.

Pending its resale; its windows were boarded up to discourage vandalism
and to prevent the curious, the morbid, and the warned from entering.

On Good Friday, 1976, Father Frank Mancuso recovered from pneumonia, and
in April, he was transferred by the Bishop of his diocese to another
parish. It is nowhere near 112 Ocean Avenue.

Now, Missy gets upset when she is asked about Jodie; Danny and Chris can
still vividly describe the "monster" who chased them that final night;
and Kathy will not talk about that period in her life at all. George has
sold his interest in William H. Parry, Inc. He does hope that those who
hear his story will understand how dangerous negative entities can be to
the unwary-to the unbelieving. "They are real," George insists, "and
they do inflict evil when the opportunity presents itself."